<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0761"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0761"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0761</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0761 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 16 NOV 89 (CADENA REVOLUCIONARIA NACIONAL) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] [TEXT] THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] GENERAL COMMAND REPORTS THE FOLLOWING TO THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY:</p><p>1. IT WAS LEARNED THROUGH MILITARY INTELLIGENCE SOURCES THAT THERE WERE DISCUSSIONS BETWEEN U.S. PENTAGON ADVISERS AND THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES' GENERAL STAFF ON THE INEFFECTIVENESS OF SALVADORAN AIR FORCE PILOTS.</p><p>2. AS A RESULT OF THESE ASSESSMENTS, ON 13 NOVEMBER, U.S. COMBAT PILOTS ARRIVED AT THE ILOPANGO AIR FORCE BASE FROM HONDURAS.</p><p>3. IN THE PAST 48 HOURS, THESE U.S. PILOTS HAVE BEEN CARRYING OUT THE BOMBING MISSIONS IN SAN SALVADOR. NIGHT BOMBINGS ARE CARRIED OUT EXCLUSIVELY BY THESE YANKEE PILOTS, AND THEY ARE DIRECTLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE EXTENSIVE DAMAGE INFLICTED AMONG THE CIVILIAN POPULATION.</p><p>4. ON 15 NOVEMBER, [WORD INDISTINCT] COMPANY TROOPS FROM GUATEMALA ARRIVED IN OUR COUNTRY AS A RESULT OF PRESSURE BY THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION TO GET REGIONAL ARMIES TO INTERVENE IN THE SALVADORAN WAR.</p><p>THE FMLN BELIEVES THAT THESE ARE VERY SERIOUS DEVELOPMENTS THAT COULD LEAD TO THE EXPANSION OF THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT TO THE REST OF THE REGION. WE CALL ON THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY AND, PARTICULARLY, ON THE U.S. PUBLIC TO DENOUNCE BEFORE THE WORLD THE ESCALATION OF THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION'S MEDDLING IN EL SALVADOR. WE WARN THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY ABOUT THE DANGER OF THIS ESCALATION AND THAT WE WILL NOT BE THE ONES RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DEATHS OF NORTH AMERICANS IN OUR FATHERLAND. WE CALL ON CENTRAL AMERICA'S PRESIDENTS TO BECOME AWARE THAT THIS U.S. INTERVENTION HARMS THE ESQUIPULAS AND TELA ACCORDS AND CONSTITUTES A DIRECT ATTACK ON THE REGION'S PROCESS OF DEMOCRATIZATION AND PEACE.</p><p>[SIGNED] FMLN GENERAL COMMAND -- COMMANDERS FRANCISCO JOVEL, JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS, SALVADOR SANCHEZ CEREN, AND EDUARDO SANCHO, SHAFIK JORGE HANDAL</p><p>EL SALVADOR, 16 NOVEMBER 1989</p></body></html>