<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0516"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0516"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0516</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0516 (UMASS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 22 SEP 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] THE U.S. SENATORS HAVE MADE A MISTAKE. THEY HAD A GREAT DEBATE TO [WORDS INDISTINCT] A SIGN SHOWING THEIR WILLINGNESS TO HELP SUPPORT THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT. HOWEVER, THEY VOTED IN FAVOR OF CONTINUING WITH THE MILITARY AID [WORDS INDISTINCT]. THEY APPROVED AID THAT WILL BE INVESTED IN WAR, WHICH WE BELIEVE IS NOT A SIGN OF PEACE. THERE WERE TWO POSITIONS AT THE SENATE: THOSE WHO ADVOCATED THAT THE AID BE DIVIDED IN THREE PACKAGES TO CONTINUE THE DELIVERY OF THE LAST PORTION OF THE AID TO THE GOVERNMENT AMID THE DIALOGUE PROCESS, AND THOSE WHO WANTED TO GIVE UNCONDITIONAL AID TO CRISTIANI, A POSITION BASICALLY DEFENDED BY CHRISTOPHER DODD. SENATOR DODD HIMSELF SAID THIS AID IS ALLEGEDLY TO ENCOURAGE CRISTIANI BECAUSE HE IS ACCOMPLISHING WHAT THE UNITED STATES HAS BEEN TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH IN THE PAST 10 YEARS.</p><p>HOWEVER, THE U.S. SENATORS MADE A MISTAKE. THEY VOTED FOR THE UNCONDITIONAL AID WHICH ACTUALLY ENCOURAGES THE MILITARY MEN AND THE HARDLINERS IN ARENA [NATIONALISTIC REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] WHO ARE BLOCKING THE POLITICAL SOLUTION OF THE CONFLICT AND WHO UNREASONABLY PROMOTE THE CONTINUATION OF THE WAR. THIS IS NOT A SIGN FOR THE MODERATES. THE VOTING FOR UNCONDITIONAL AID IS INTERPRETED BY THE FASCISTS, THE WARMONGERING, THE ARENA [WORDS INDISTINCT] AS A BLANK CHECK TO CONTINUE WITH THE ADVENTURE OF WAR. THIS WAS THE TIME FOR U.S. DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS TO SUPPORT WITH THEIR VOTING THE REGIONAL EFFORT AND THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S EFFORT TO ATTAIN PEACE IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] HAS TAKEN UNMISTAKABLE STEPS THAT EXPRESS ITS WILLINGNESS TO HELP ATTAIN PEACE. HOWEVER, IT SEEMS THE U.S. SENATORS ARE MISINFORMED ABOUT EVENTS IN EL SALVADOR: THE INCREASE IN HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS, THE ARRESTS, THE BOMBINGS, THE WAR PARADES, AND THE HARASSMENT OF THE PRESS. IN SUM, THESE ARE WAR ACTIONS AMID A NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL DEMAND FOR NEGOTIATIONS TO ATTAIN PEACE.</p><p>THE U.S. SENATORS MADE A MISTAKE. WAR ACTIONS IN EL SALVADOR ARE CONTRARY TO THE EXPECTATIONS OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND CLEARLY COME FROM THE [WORDS INDISTINCT], THE ARENA HARDLINERS. THEY ALSO ALSO FROM THE U.S. SENATORS WHO VOTED IN FAVOR OF THE UNCONDITIONAL AID. THEREFORE, THE U.S. SENATORS GAVE A SIGN [WORDS INDISTINCT] ARE ENCOURAGING THE WAR WITH THIS BLANK CHECK TO THE ARENA GOVERNMENT.</p></body></html>