<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0705"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0705"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0705</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0705 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [STATEMENT] [DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL RAFAEL HUMBERTO LARIOS] [TEXT] [LARIOS, IN PROGRESS] ....PRINCIPLES AND EXPLANATIONS GIVEN BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC AND COMMANDER GENERAL OF THE ARMED FORCES AND IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS' MANDATE, THE ARMED FORCES HEREBY ANNOUNCE THE PROCEDURES FOR THE CURFEW AS A RESULT OF THE SUSPENSION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS.</p><p>THE CURFEW ESSENTIALLY SEEKS TO PREVENT ANY ABUSE OR DISRESPECT OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S DIGNITY AND PHYSICAL WELFARE, RESULTING FROM THE MARXIST-LENINIST TERRORISTS' AGGRESSION. NOTING THIS AND SEEKING TO STRICTLY ENFORCE THE CURFEW, THE FOLLOWING MEASURES ARE ESTABLISHED:</p><p>1. THE CURFEW WILL BE IN EFFECT BASED ON THE FOLLOWING SCHEDULE: FROM 2000 ON 12 NOVEMBER UNTIL 0600 ON 13 NOVEMBER, AND FROM 1800 TO 0600 STARTING ON 13 NOVEMBER UNTIL NOTIFIED OTHERWISE. ALSO, THE CURFEW'S SCHEDULE RESTRICTS ALL VEHICLE AND PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT NATIONWIDE. THE FOLLOWING ARE EXEMPT FROM THE MEASURE: MILITARY VEHICLES; VEHICLES BELONGING TO NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS SUCH AS THE SALVADORAN RED CROSS, GREEN CROSS, INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS, AND HOSPITAL AMBULANCES WHICH WILL ATTEND ONLY EMERGENCY CASES. AN AUTHORIZATION WILL BE ISSUED BY THE CORRESPONDING DEPARTMENT COMMANDERS WHO WILL ACT AS THE GARRISON COMMANDERS JEFE DE PLAZA IN THE DEPARTMENT CAPITALS, EFFECTIVE TODAY, THEREBY ENABLING THESE ORGANIZATIONS TO CARRY OUT THEIR WORK IN STRICT COMPLIANCE WITH THE MEASURES.</p><p>THE SAME PROCEDURES WILL BE FOLLOWED IN THE MUNICIPALITIES WHERE THE AUTHORIZATION WILL BE GRANTED BY THE CORRESPONDING MILITARY AUTHORITY.</p><p>FURTHERMORE, COLONEL JUAN CARLOS CARRILLO SCHLENKER, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF THE NATIONAL GUARD, IS APPOINTED GARRISON COMMANDER IN SAN SALVADOR EFFECTIVE TODAY.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE, THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES SALUTE YOU WITH RESPECT AND ADMIRATION. WE URGE YOU TO CALL TELEPHONE NUMBER 123 IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS, AND WE WILL GLADLY ANSWER THEM. THANK YOU FOR YOUR ATTENTION.</p></body></html>