<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1016"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1016"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1016</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1016 (TRW)</p><p>LIMA, 20 DEC 89 (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [TEXT] THE PANAMANIAN CHARGE D'AFFAIRS IN OUR COUNTRY, JAIME CERDA, DID NOT [AS HEARD] MAKE AN URGENT CALL TO ALL LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLE TO REPUDIATE THE U.S. INTERVENTION IN HIS COUNTRY.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CERDA] WE DEFINITELY CALL ON THE WORLD, ON THE CONSCIENCE OF THE WORLD, TO END THIS SITUATION.</p><p>[REPORTER] IT HAS BEEN SAID THAT THE TORRIJOS-CARTER TREATY COULD BE ONE OF THE MAIN REASONS FOR THIS CONFLICT THAT HAS BEEN BREWING FOR SOME TIME BETWEEN THE U.S. GOVERNMENT AND THE PANAMANIAN STATE. DO YOU BELIEVE, AS A CITIZEN, THAT THERE IS A SHORT-TERM SOLUTION TO THIS CONFLICT?</p><p>[CERDA] THAT WOULD DEPEND ON THE GOOD FAITH OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT TOWARD PANAMANIANS. I BELIEVE THAT NO PEOPLE, NO MAN, INDEPENDENTLY OF WHAT HE MAY THINK OF THE GOVERNMENTS, CAN AGREE WITH THIS TYPE OF INTERVENTION BY THE WORLD'S MOST POWERFUL POWER DIRECTED AGAINST A SMALL PEOPLE WHO DO NOT HAVE THE RESOURCES TO CONFRONT THE MILITARY MIGHT OF THE UNITED STATES. ACCORDING TO INTERNATIONAL PRESS AGENCIES REPORTS, CIVILIANS ARE BEING KILLED THERE ARE MANY MILITIAMEN WHO ARE FIGHTING THE U.S. SOLDIERS. I REITERATE MY CALL TO THE PEOPLE OF THE WORLD, ON THE LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLE, ON OUR PERUVIAN BROTHERS TO DECLARE THEMSELVES AGAINST THIS ACT OF AGGRESSION THAT CANNOT BE TOLERATED BY FREE NATIONS.</p><p>[REPORTER] IN PANAMA, WHERE ARE THE CLASHES TAKING PLACE?</p><p>[CERDA] IN PANAMA CITY. INTERNATIONAL PRESS DISPATCHES HAVE MENTIONED THIS.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT IS THE SOCIAL COST SO FAR? IS THERE SOME ESTIMATE?</p><p>[CERDA] WELL, INTERNATIONAL DISPATCHES SPEAK OF 50 DEAD, MOSTLY CIVILIANS. FROM THE SANTO TOMAS HOSPITAL, WHICH IS A PUBLIC HEALTH HOSPITAL, THERE HAS BEEN NO INFORMATION ON THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE THAT BEEN GIVEN MEDICAL ATTENTION, NOR FROM OTHER HOSPITALS.</p></body></html>