<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0689"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0689"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0689</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0689 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE ARMED FORCES EXISTS TO PROTECT YOU AND THAT IS WHAT IT WANTS TO DO. HOWEVER, THE ARMED FORCES MUST ALSO CARRY OUT ITS CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY, WHICH IS TO COUNTER THE TERRORISTS WHO ARE THE ONES CAUSING SO MANY PROBLEMS FOR OUR COUNTRY AND FOR YOU, SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>WE REGRET THE FACT THAT 7 INNOCENT PERSONS HAVE DIED AND 23 HAVE BEEN INJURED. THESE ARE PERSONS WHO YESTERDAY WERE PROBABLY THINKING ABOUT ENJOYING THEMSELVES WITH THEIR FAMILIES AND WHO TODAY ARE DEAD AS A RESULT OF THOSE IRRATIONAL ACTIONS. THE ARMED FORCES WANTS TO PROTECT YOUR LIVES AS BEST IT CAN. PLEASE, SALVADORAN PEOPLE, LET US REMAIN INSIDE OUR HOMES. DO NOT GO OUT ON THE STREETS, ESPECIALLY IN THE AREAS WHERE SPORADIC INCIDENTS ARE STILL BEING REPORTED. WE FEEL THAT IT IS NECESSARY THAT YOU REMAIN CALM AND ALWAYS TRUST THE ARMED FORCES. THIS SITUATION IS GOING TO BE CONTROLLED. IT IS GOING TO BE CONTROLLED, AND WE ARE GOING TO FIND THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL THE HARM CAUSED.</p><p>I HAVE ALSO SUMMONED AND MET WITH THE CABINET. I BELIEVE THAT IT IS ALWAYS NECESSARY TO ANALYZE THE ATTITUDE OF THE GOVERNMENT AND ARMED FORCES WITHIN OUR COUNTRY'S LEGAL FRAMEWORK. I BELIEVE THAT THIS IS THE TIME FOR THE TERRORISTS TO KNOW THAT THERE ARE LAWS TO FIGHT THEIR IRRATIONAL ACTIONS. WE ARE STUDYING WHETHER IT WILL BE NECESSARY TO IMPLEMENT A STATE OF SIEGE AND A CURFEW. LATER WE WILL ADVISE YOU OF THE DECISION THAT THE MINISTERS MAY REACH SO THAT YOU WILL BE INFORMED. I BELIEVE THAT IF A STATE OF SIEGE AND A CURFEW ARE DISCUSSED, IT IS PRECISELY TO PROTECT YOU, TO PROTECT THE CIVILIANS FROM THE IRRATIONAL FMLN TERRORISTS. THAT IS THE ONLY REASON FOR THIS. THESE MEASURES ARE THE TOOLS THAT OUR STATE OF LAW OFFERS FOR THE GOVERNMENT AND ARMED FORCES TO PROTECT YOUR LIVES SO THAT WE WILL NO LONGER HAVE TO REGRET INCIDENTS SUCH AS THE ONES WE HAVE SEEN THE PAST 2 DAYS.</p><p>WE BELIEVE THAT YOUR ATTITUDE DESERVES OUR RECOGNITION AND THE RECOGNITION OF ALL THE PEOPLES OF THE WORLD. EVERYONE HAS SEEN THAT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE LOVE DEMOCRACY AND FREEDOM AND DO NOT WANT MORE VIOLENCE, AND UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES DO THEY SUPPORT THESE IRRATIONAL ACTIONS CARRIED OUT BY THE FMLN.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE, THE ARMED FORCES AND THE PEOPLE WILL AGAIN WIN. THEY WILL TRIUMPH OVER THE FMLN TERRORISTS. WE ASK YOU TO CONTINUE SUPPORTING US, THAT YOU CONTINUE TO GIVE US THE OPPORTUNITY TO ACT EFFECTIVELY , WITHOUT ENDANGERING MORE CIVILIAN LIVES. THROUGHOUT THE DAY WE WILL CONTINUE TO REPORT ON THE SITUATION, AND WE REPEAT, THE ARMED FORCES WILL CONTROL THE SITUATION SHORTLY.</p><p>THANK YOU FOR YOUR ATTENTION AND YOUR EFFECTIVE COOPERATION. REST ASSURED THAT YOUR ARMED FORCES AND YOUR GOVERNMENT WILL RESPOND AS YOU HAVE ORDERED. THANK YOU.</p></body></html>