<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0371"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0371"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0371</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0371 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 24 AUG 89 (EMISORAS CARACOL NETWORK) -- [TEXT] A VIOLENT OFFENSIVE SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN LAUNCHED BY PERSONS WHO ARE BEING SOUGHT THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY. SEVERAL EXPLOSIVE DEVICES WERE PLACED AT DIFFERENT SITES IN MEDELLIN [WORDS INDISTINCT] A MESSAGE, WHICH RADIO CARACOL WILL READ FOR ITS LISTENERS:</p><p>23 AUGUST 1989 THE EXTRADITABLES AND THE PEOPLE WHOSE PROPERTIES HAVE BEEN CONFISCATED STATE THE FOLLOWING TO THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE:</p><p>1. WE HAVE BEEN ASKING THE GOVERNMENT FOR PEACE SINCE THE TALKS IN PANAMA IN 1984. A LOT OF VIOLENCE COULD HAVE BEEN AVOIDED.</p><p>2. WE ACCEPTED THE PEACE PLAN PROPOSED BY PRESIDENT BARCO BUT WE RECEIVED NO REPLY FROM THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>3. THE ONLY REPLY WE HAVE RECEIVED FROM THE GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN REPRESSION, ARBITRARY [WORDS INDISTINCT] UNJUST ARREST OF OUR RELATIVES, LOOTING OF OUR HOUSES.</p><p>4. ALL KINDS OF JURIDICAL VIOLATIONS HAVE BEEN PERPETRATED AGAINST US.</p><p>5. THE GOVERNMENT HAS BRIBED JUSTICE WITH [WORDS INDISTINCT], DIPLOMATIC SINECURES, AND TRIPS ABROAD.</p><p>6. THE ACTIONS OF CONFISCATION ARE NOTHING NEW; THEY HAVE ALWAYS PREVAILED IN OUR COUNTRY. [WORDS INDISTINCT] WERE UNJUSTLY ARRESTED AND IMPRISONED, EVEN THOUGH NO ARREST WARRANTS HAD BEEN ISSUED AGAINST THEM, AND MANY OF OUR PROPERTIES AND POSSESSIONS WERE ARBITRARILY CONFISCATED OR USURPED.</p><p>7. COLOMBIAN CITIZENS CHARGED WITH MONEY LAUNDERING HAVE BEEN EXTRADITED AND WILL BE EXTRADITED, ALTHOUGH THIS REPRESENTS A VIOLATION OF COLOMBIAN LAWS.</p><p>8. WE ALWAYS WERE, ARE, AND WILL BE WILLING TO ENGAGE IN DIALOGUE BUT WE WILL NOT LOWER OUR GUARD AND WE WILL CONTINUE OUR STRUGGLE AND WIDESPREAD WAR AGAINST TRAITORS AND TURNCOATS.</p><p>9. WE DECLARE A WIDESPREAD AND TOTAL WAR ON THE GOVERNMENT, THE INDUSTRIAL AND POLITICAL OLIGARCHY, THE JOURNALISTS WHO HAVE ATTACKED AND MISTREATED US, JUDGES WHO HAVE BEEN BRIBED BY THE GOVERNMENT, THE EXTRADITING MAGISTRATES, THE BUSINESS ORGANIZATION PRESIDENTS, AND ALL THOSE WHO HAVE PERSECUTED US IN THE PAST.</p><p>10. WE WILL NOT RESPECT THE FAMILIES OF THOSE WHO HAVE NOT RESPECTED OUR FAMILIES. WE WILL KILL THEM, AND WE WILL BURN AND DESTROY THE OLIGARCHY'S INDUSTRIES, PROPERTIES, AND MANSIONS.</p><p>(SIGNED) THE EXTRADITABLES.</p></body></html>