<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0992"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0992"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0992</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0992 (SRI)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 15 DEC 89 (RADIO SANDINO) -- [TEXT] NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ORTEGA HAS CALLED ON THE U.S. GOVERNMENT TO RESPECT THE PEACE AGREEMENTS SIGNED BY THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS. AT A MEETING WITH RESIDENTS OF NIQUINOMO, ORTEGA TALKED ABOUT THE AGREEMENTS SIGNED BY THE PRESIDENTS OF THE REGION DURING THE MEETING IN SAN ISIDRO DE CORONADO, COSTA RICA.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ORTEGA] THE AGREEMENTS SIGNED IN COSTA RICA ARE ANOTHER STEP FOWARD IN THE INTEREST OF PEACE IN CENTRAL AMERICA. HOWEVER, WE ARE NOT COMPLETELY SATISFIED, BECAUSE, AS I WAS TELLING THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS YESTERDAY, IT IS ONE THING TO AGREE ON SOMETHING AND SIGN AN AGREEMENT, BUT WHAT WE DO WHEN WE RETURN TO OUR COUNTRIES IS QUITE ANOTHER. THERE MUST BE CONSISTENCY BETWEEN WHAT IS SIGNED AND WHAT IS DONE. IF WE SIGN AN AGREEMENT AND PROMISE TO RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS, THEN WE MUST RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS - - NOT KILL PRIESTS AND BRUTALLY REPRESS THE PEOPLE AS IN EL SALVADOR. IF WE AGREE THAT THE CONTRAS MUST BE DEMOBILIZED, THEN THE HONDURAN GOVERNMENT MUST DO ITS PART TO ENSURE THAT THE CONTRAS ARE DEMOBILIZED. WE MUST DEMAND THAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT RESPECT THE AGREEMENTS. THE PROBLEM WE FACE IS THAT AFTER EVERY PRESIDENTIAL SUMMIT IS HELD AND AGREEMENTS ARE SIGNED, THE YANKEE GOVERNMENT DOES NOT RESPECT THEM AND CONTINUES TO DO AS IT PLEASES. I HOPE THE U.S. GOVERNMENT WILL, ONCE AND FOR ALL, RESPECT THE AGREEMENTS SIGNED BY THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS. THE UNITED STATES CAN SHOW ITS WILLINGNESS TO RESPECT THESE AGREEMENTS BY REFRAINING FROM HINDERING THE DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] AND THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND THE SEARCH FOR A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION TO THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT. IF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT IS TRULY WILLING TO RESPECT THESE AGREEMENTS, THEN IT MUST NO LONGER GIVE THE CONTRAS MONEY TO MURDER THE NICARAGUAN PEOPLE. LIKE THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS SAID, THAT MONEY SHOULD BE GIVEN TO THE INTERNATIONAL COMMISSION OF SUPPORT AND VERIFICATION. ONLY IN THIS WAY WILL THE CONTRAS STOP BEING A THREAT TO THE NICARAGUAN PEOPLE. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>