<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0767"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0767"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0767</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0767 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 16 NOV 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI STATED TODAY HIS GOVERNMENT IS WILLING TO CONTINUE THE DIALOGUE WITH THE GUERRILLAS, BUT ONLY IF IT DESISTS FROM VIOLENCE AND JOINS THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS.</p><p>"WE WILL NOT LEND OURSELVES TO ANY GAME WITH THE GUERRILLAS. WHILE SPEAKING OF PEACE, THEY PREPARED THIS ACTION" (THE OFFENSIVE), CRISTIANI STATED, NOTING THAT THE REBELS "ARE GOING TO ANY LENGTH TO TRY TO ACHIEVE POWER THROUGH VIOLENT MEANS."</p><p>"IF HOSTILITIES DO NOT CEASE ON THE PART OF THE GUERRILLAS, THERE WILL NOT BE ANY DIALOGUE. THE GOVERNMENT WILL NOT LEND ITSELF TO THIS GAME," HE INSISTED.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT STATED AT A NEWS CONFERENCE THAT THE ARMY "HAS CONTROLLED" NATIONAL TERRITORY, ALTHOUGH HE ADMITTED THAT IN SOME PLACES, ESPECIALLY IN NEIGHBORHOODS OF THE CAPITAL, CLASHES ARE STILL TAKING PLACE WITH THE REBELS.</p><p>CRISTIANI STATED THAT COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT OSCAR ARIAS "IS VERY DISTURBED AND TERMED THE REBELS CYNICAL," BECAUSE WHILE THEY SPOKE OF PEACE THEY WERE PREPARING THE OFFENSIVE LAUNCHED ON SATURDAY.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT AGAIN DENIED THAT THE SALVADORAN AIR FORCE IS INDISCRIMINATELY BOMBING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. HE SAID THAT ONLY TWICE HAVE BOMBS BEEN USED, THE FIRST TIME IN AN OPEN FIELD OF THE UNIVERSITY OF EL SALVADOR WHERE MORTARS WERE POSITIONED, AND AGAIN LAST NIGHT IN THE VICINITY OUTSIDE THE AIR FORCE GARRISONS.</p><p>CRISTIANI STATED THAT THE GUERRILLAS USED BOMBS LAST NIGHT AGAINST THE AIR FORCE IN EASTERN SAN SALVADOR AND WERE REPELLED BY AIRCRAFT WHICH DROPPED BOMBS.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT STRESSED THAT THE ARMY HAS NOT EVICTED THE GUERRILLAS FROM POSITIONS IN THE NORTHWESTERN NEIGHBORHOODS OF SAN SALVADOR SO AS "NOT TO AFFECT THE CIVILIAN POPULATION."</p><p>HE ADDED THAT FRANCE AND GUATEMALA HAVE OFFERED TO DONATE MEDICINE FOR THE THOUSANDS OF SALVADORANS WHO HAVE HAD TO LEAVE THEIR HOMES AS A RESULT OF THE INTENSE FIGHTING BETWEEN THE ARMY AND GUERRILLAS SINCE THE OFFENSIVE BEGAN, CAUSING APPROXIMATELY 1,000 DEATHS.</p></body></html>