<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0701"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0701"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0701</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0701 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 12 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] WE HAVE RECEIVED A LAST MINUTE REPORT FROM SAN MIGUEL. WE HAVE BEEN INFORMED THAT, PAY SPECIAL ATTENTION, DURING CLASHES WITH THE ENEMY IN LA ESMERALDA NEIGHBORHOOD IN SAN MIGUEL, OUR REBEL ARMY CONFISCATED THREE 22-MM RIFLES, TWO .38-CAL PISTOLS, ONE 22-MM PISTOL, AND ONE CZECH PISTOL. ON 6TH EAST STREET OF THE CITY, AN ENEMY OFFICER AND A SERGEANT WERE KILLED AND TWO SOLDIERS WERE CAPTURED. WE REPEAT, TWO SOLDIERS WERE CAPTURED AT 6TH EAST STREET IN SAN MIGUEL. ONE OF THE SOLDIERS SURRENDERED TO THE PEOPLE BECAUSE HE WAS WOUNDED. THERE IS A MARKED DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE ENEMY AND OUR GUERRILLA ARMY. WHEN FASCIST TROOPS CAPTURE WOUNDED REBELS IN SAN SALVADOR, THEY QUESTION THEM FIRST AT THE NATIONAL GUARD AND 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE HEADQUARTERS AND THEN MURDER THEM. OUR ARMY RESPECTS THE GENEVA AGREEMENTS.</p><p>WE CONTINUE OUR SAN MIGUEL REPORTING. AT 1030 TODAY, WE DESTROYED A LIGHT TANK ON 6TH NORTH AVENUE THEREBY INCREASING THE NUMBER OF LIGHT TANKS THAT WE HAVE DESTROYED ALL OVER THE COUNTRY. OTHER REPORTS THAT HAVE BEEN RECEIVED BY RADIO VENCEREMOS INDICATE THAT THE TOTAL NUMBER OF CASUALTIES IN ZACATECOLUCA AS OF 1618, IS 45, INCLUDING TWO SECTION CHIEFS. HEAVY FIGHTING CONTINUES IN ZACATECOLUCA NEIBORHOODS. IN SOYAPANGO, WHERE WE HAD RECEIVED A REPORT OF 50 CASUALTIES, WE HAVE NOW BEEN INFORMED THAT THE NUMBER OF CASUALTIES INFLICTED ON THE ENEMY HAS INCREASED TO 70. WE HAVE INFLICTED 70 CASUALTIES ON AIR FORCE COMMANDER GENERAL JUAN RAFAEL BUSTILLO'S CRIMINAL AIR FORCE. THIS NUMBER INCLUDES AN OFFICER. WE HAVE INFLICTED 10 CASUALTIES ON THE TREASURY POLICE FORCES. WE HAVE RECEIVED REPORTS THAT 3 HELICOPTERS WERE DAMAGED IN SOYAPANGO WHERE CLASHES HAVE ENSUED AND CONTINUE AT 1619. REPORTS FROM SAN SALVADOR AND SAN MIGUEL INDICATE THAT AT THIS TIME CLASHES ARE INCREASING IN INTENSITY IN BOTH PLACES. A FEW MINUTES AGO, WE RECEIVED A REPORT FROM SAN MIGUEL THAT OUR COMRADES WERE IN GOOD SPIRITS AND FORCING THE 3D INFANTRY BRIGADE TROOPS TO WITHDRAW.</p></body></html>