<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0946"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0946"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0946</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0946 (SRI)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 7 DEC 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION, NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL PRESS. THIS IS A REPORT FROM SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] REPORTS THAT AS OF 2200 ON 6 DECEMBER, FMLN COLUMNS [WORDS INDISTINCT] INSIDE THE CAPITAL CITY, STAGED ATTACKS ON MILITARY GARRISONS, AND CARRIED OUT SABOTAGE ACTIVITIES IN VARIOUS PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>AFTER BREAKING UP THE ENEMY'S DEFENSIVE POSITIONS IN SAN SALVADOR, THE FMLN OCCUPIED VARIOUS AREAS IN THE CAPITAL. THE GENERAL STAFF INSTALLATIONS WERE ATTACKED WITH 60-MM MORTARS. [WORDS INDISTINCT] AND AIR SUPPORT AGAINST OUR POSITIONS. WE ARE AWAITING DETAILED REPORTS OF THIS ATTACK ON THE GENERAL STAFF WITH 60-MM MORTARS.</p><p>SIMULTANEOUSLY, OUR GUERRILLA COLUMNS IN SAN SALVADOR ESTABLISHED POSITIONS IN SAN BENITO, ESCALON, LA MASCOTA, AND MAQUILIGUAT NEIGHBORHOODS, AND ALSO IN SAN ANTONIO ABAD AND THE NORTHERN PERIPHERY OF THE GENERAL STAFF INSTALLATIONS, BATTLING WITH MARINES, MILITARY DETACHMENT NO. 7 FROM AGUACHAPAN, THE ELITE BATTALIONS STATIONED THERE, NATIONAL POLICE FORCES, AND UNITS FROM THE SAN BENITO BATTALION, WHICH IS IN CHARGE OF GUARDING THE GENERAL STAFF INSTALLATIONS. IT IS REPORTED THAT ONE M-16 RIFLE, PISTOLS, MILITARY EQUIPMENT, AND A LARGE QUANTITY OF AMMUNITION WERE SEIZED FROM THE ARMY.</p><p>AT 0100, OUR ANTIAIRCRAFT UNITS OPENED FIRE ON TWO HELICOPTERS IN ESCALON NEIGHBORHOOD. ONE OF THEM WAS A TRANSPORT HELICOPTER AND THE OTHER A GUNSHIP. BOTH WERE DAMAGED. MEANWHILE, OUR GUERRILLAS ALSO USED MORTARS DURING AN ATTACK ON THE SAN BENITO BATTALION'S POSITIONS NEAR ZONA ROSA. AT THE SAME TIME, AN ATTACK WAS CARRIED OUT AGAINST THE CETIPOL [POLICE INSTRUCTION CENTER] POLICE ACADEMY IN SANTA TECLA, USING 81-MM MORTARS. ATTACKS WERE STAGED AGAINST THE CETIPOL'S PERIPHERAL DEFENSE FROM ANOTHER DIRECTION UNTIL LATE THIS MORNING.</p><p>MEANWHILE, AN ATTACK CARRIED OUT FROM THE NORTHERN PART OF SAN SALVADOR LED TO INCURSIONS IN SOYAPANGO, MEJICANOS, AND AYUTUXTEPEQUE. IN AYUTUXTEPEQUE THE FMLN CARRIED OUT ANNIHILATION MANEUVERS AGAINST THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE'S SORIANO BATTALION, WHICH WAS STATIONED ON EL CARMEN HILL WHERE WE KILLED 15 SOLDIERS AND WOUNDED 30. AMONG THESE CASUALTIES IS AN OFFICER FROM THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE.</p><p>THE FMLN SEIZED FIVE M-16 RIFLES, ONE [WORD INDISTINCT] GRENADE LAUNCHER, [WORDS INDISTINCT], FOUR M-60 MACHINEGUNS FROM THE ANNIHILATED TROOPS. A MILITARY VEHICLE WAS PARTIALLY DESTROYED, AND AN ENEMY PATROL WAS TOTALLY DESTROYED.</p><p>PRAL [LONG-RANGE RECONNAISSANCE PATROL] REINFORCEMENT UNITS ATTEMPTED TO SUPPORT THE ARMY TROOPS UNDER ATTACK BUT THEY WERE REPELLED BY THE FMLN.</p><p>THE ELECTRICITY SYSTEM IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE CAPITAL CITY WAS SABOTAGED, LEAVING 90 PERCENT OF THE CITY WITHOUT POWER.</p><p>ATTENTION. HERE IS THE REPORT ON THE HELICOPTER DOWNED IN SOYAPANGO. ATTENTION. ON 6 DECEMBER THERE WERE CLASHES IN SAN JOSE CORTEZ, JURISDICTION OF SOYAPANGO, WITH THE BELLOSO BATTALION WHICH RECEIVED STRONG AERIAL SUPPORT UP UNTIL THE AFTERNOON HOURS. HELICOPTERS MACHINEGUNNED AND ROCKETED THIS DENSELY POPULATED AREA. OUR ANTIAIRCRAFT UNITS, REAFFIRMING OUR DETERMINATION TO DEFEND THE CIVILIAN POPULATION AGAINST AERIAL ATTACKS, OPENED FIRE AND HIT A GUNSHIP. THE GUNSHIP FELL TO THE GROUND AT THE MORAZAN TOBACCO COMPANY.</p><p>GUERRILLA UNITS SIMULTANEOUSLY ATTACKED PARAMILITARY FORCES IN TONACATEPEQUE DURING THE EARLY HOURS OF 7 DECEMBER, WHICH PROMPTED AERIAL SUPPORT BECAUSE THIS AREA IS ON THE AIR FORCE'S SECURITY PERIMETER, BUT CALLS FROM THE BATTALION THAT WAS BEING ANNIHILATED ON THE EL CARMEN HILL IN AYUTUXTEPEQUE WENT UNHEEDED.</p><p>THESE ARE THE FIRST REPORTS ON ALL THE ACTIVITIES UNDER WAY IN SAN SALVADOR, WHERE AT 2200 ON 6 DECEMBER OUR GUERRILLA UNITS BEGAN TO FORCE AND BREAK THE DAM THAT THE HIGH COMMAND BUILT AT THE GENERAL STAFF'S BUNKER [WORDS INDISTINCT] OUR COLUMNS, UNTIL THEY PENETRATED THE AFOREMENTIONED AREAS, FIGHTING IN THE ESCALON AND SAN BENITO NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE THE OLIGARCHS LIVE.</p><p>ACTIONS HAVE ALSO TAKEN PLACE THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY. FACTORIES HAVE BEEN SABOTAGED, STRATEGIC HIGHWAYS HAVE BEEN CONTROLLED, POSITIONS HAVE BEEN ESTABLISHED, AND TOWNS HAVE BEEN OCCUPIED. WE WILL FURNISH FURTHER INFORMATION LATER.</p></body></html>