<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1210"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1210"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1210</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1210 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 30 MAR 90 (DIARIO LATINO) -- [TEXT] INTERNATIONAL NEWS DISPATCHES HAVE REPORTED ON PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S REMARKS ABOUT WHY THE NEFARIOUS DEATH SQUADS HAVE APPEARED AND STILL THRIVE IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>CRISTIANI'S REMARKS, MADE IN CARACAS, HAVE BEEN THE CAUSE OF CONCERN FOR LOCAL AND FOREIGN OBSERVERS BECAUSE HE USES A STRANGE AND TWISTED LOGIC TO ANALYZE THE SALVADORAN SOCIAL REALITY. HE HAS SAID THAT THE DEATH SQUADS APPEARED IN RESPONSE TO THE FORMATION OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN]. EVEN WORSE, HE SAID THAT THESE SQUADS WILL CONTINUE TO OPERATE IN OUR COUNTRY AS LONG AS THE FMLN CONTINUES TO CARRY OUT POLITICAL AND MILITARY ACTIVITIES.</p><p>CRISTIANI'S REMARKS HAVE CALLED THE ATTENTION OF UDN, WHICH CANNOT HELP BUT REJECT AND REFUTE ASSERTIONS DESIGNED TO CONFUSE THE LOCAL AND FOREIGN PUBLIC OPINION ON THE TRUE CAUSES OF VIOLENCE IN THE COUNTRY AND THE FMLN'S APPEARANCE AND DEVELOPMENT IN THE NATIONAL SCENARIO.</p><p>FIRST, CRISTIANI'S ASSERTIONS REPRESENT MORAL SUPPORT FOR THE GROUPS AND BANDS OF ASSASSINS WHO, EMBEDDED IN AND PROTECTED BY THE STRUCTURES OF POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC POWER, HAVE ASSASSINATED WITH IMPUNITY TENS OF THOUSANDS OF LOWLY SALVADORANS.</p><p>SECOND, CRISTIANI MISTAKES THE CASE FOR THE EFFECT BY SAYING THAT "VIOLENCE ENGENDERS VIOLENCE" AND THAT, THEREFORE, THERE WILL BE DEATH SQUADS AS LONG AS THERE ARE GUERRILLAS. THE TRUTH IS THAT THE DEATH SQUADS WERE ACTIVE EVEN BEFORE THE FMLN WAS ORGANIZED. HAS CRISTIANI PERHAPS FORGOTTEN THE ASSASSINATIONS PERPETRATED BY THE WHITE HAND [LA MANO BLANCA], THE WHITE WAR UNION [LA UNION GUERRA BLANCA], AND OTHER GROUPS THAT HAVE BEEN SPREADING TERROR FOR MANY YEARS?</p><p>THIRD, VIOLENCE AND HOSTILITY HAVE ALWAYS BEEN PRESENT IN EL SALVADOR SINCE THE SPANISH INVASION AND CONQUEST AND WORKERS HAVE ALWAYS BEEN FAVORITE VICTIMS.</p><p>WE HEREBY STATE THIS, FULLY COGNIZANT OF THE COUNTRY'S HISTORY. THE VIOLENCE OF THE PEOPLE HAS RESPONDED, AS A LAST DITCH RESORT, TO THE GENERALIZED VIOLENCE OF THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND STATE.</p><p>LET US KEEP IN MIND OUR FOREBEARS' RESISTANCE TO THE SPANISH INVADERS; THE PEASANTS' AND INDIANS' PERSISTENT REBELLION AGAINST THE SOCIAL INJUSTICE OF COLONIAL TIMES; THE HEROIC ACTIONS AND THE PATRIOTIC ATTEMPTS THAT CULMINATED IN INDEPENDENCE; ANASTASIO AQUINO'S REBELLION; THE PEASANTS' AND INDIANS' RESISTANCE TO WORKING FOR THE NEW LANDOWNERS WHO DISPOSSESSED THEM OF THEIR COMMON LANDS DURING THE 1881 AGRARIAN REFORM; THE REBELLION OF WORKERS AND PEASANTS IN 1932; THE HISTORIC ACTION AGAINST DICTATOR MARTINEZ IN 1944; THE RANK AND FILE STRUGGLE AGAINST TYRANT LEMUS; THE PEOPLE'S STRUGGLE AGAINST THE ELECTORAL IMPOSITION IN THE 1970'S; AND THE UNYIELDING STRUGGLE OF AN ENTIRE PEOPLE FOR DEMOCRACY AND PEACE WITH SOCIAL JUSTICE, WHICH IS CURRENTLY UNDERWAY. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>