<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0947"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0947"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CARACAS (VENEZUELA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0947</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0947 (SRI)</p><p>CARACAS (VENEZUELA), 7 DEC 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ PREDICTED A SERIOUS CRISIS ON THE CONTINENT IF A SOLUTION FOR THE CENTRAL AMERICAN CONFLICT IS NOT FOUND. HE APPEALED TO "THE FOREIGN POWERS" TO HALT THEIR INTERVENTION IN THE SUBREGION.</p><p>IN A NEWS CONFERENCE BROADCAST OVER TELEVISION FOR ALL THE COUNTRY, PEREZ TODAY PREDICTED THAT THE COMING CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS SUMMIT TO BE HELD IN SAN JOSE WILL FAIL IF WHAT HE DESCRIBED AS "FOREIGN POWERS" DO NOT HALT MILITARY AND FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO THE VARIOUS FACTIONS FIGHTING IN THE CONVULSED REGION.</p><p>THE COSTA RICAN, NICARAGUAN, GUATEMALAN, SALVADORAN, AND HONDURAN PRESIDENTS WILL MEET IN SAN JOSE SHORTLY TO FIND A SOLUTION TO THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT AND REACTIVATE THE ESQUIPULAS II AND TELA PACIFICATION ACCORDS.</p><p>"IF THE FOREIGN POWERS, BE THEY THE UNITED STATES, CUBA, THE SOVIET UNION, OR WHATEVER, PERSIST ON DISTURBING A DIRECT ANALYSIS AND PREVENTING A FRIENDLY AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS, THIS SUMMIT WILL COME TO NOTHING," PEREZ POINTED OUT.</p><p>PEREZ SAID THAT THE RECENT FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] OFFENSIVE IN EL SALVADOR INTERFERED SERIOUSLY WITH THE REGIONAL PACIFICATION PROCESS. HE REQUESTED THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT CLARIFY THE DEATH OF SIX JESUITS WHO WERE MURDERED BY THE DEATH SQUADS.</p><p>"THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT THE SALVADORAN CRISIS OCCURRED AT AN UNTIMELY MOMENT, WHEN THINGS WERE GOING SO WELL. THE RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS, HOWEVER, RESTS HEAVILY WITH THE FMLN AND THOSE WHO GAVE ARMS TO THE REBELS SO THEY COULD CARRY OUT SO MAJOR A MILITARY OPERATION," HE SAID.</p><p>HE ADDED, HOWEVER, THAT "THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT IS ACCOUNTABLE FOR WHAT HAPPENED TO THE SIX JESUITS, WHO WERE MURDERED IN A LOWLY AND WICKED MANNER. THIS MUST BE CLARIFIED ALSO," HE SAID.</p><p>THE VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT, WHO OFFERED TO MEDIATE IN THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT, SAID HE REPORTED TO COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT OSCAR ARIAS, THE SUMMIT'S HOST, THE CONTENTS OF A LETTER THAT THE FMLN SENT TO PEREZ, IN WHICH THE ORGANIZATION PROPOSES A CEASE-FIRE WITH INTERNATIONAL VERIFICATION.</p><p>PEREZ ASKED THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS TO BE MORE FLEXIBLE BECAUSE "THE FATE OF ALL OF LATIN AMERICA IS AT STAKE."</p><p>REFERRING DIRECTLY TO THE SAN JOSE SUMMIT -- HE SAID HE WAS INSTRUMENTAL IN CHOOSING COSTA RICA AS SITE FOR THE MEETING -- PEREZ ASSUMED AN "OPTIMISTIC YET CONCERNED" STANCE WITH REGARD TO THE MEETING'S RESULTS.</p><p>HE FINALLY SAID: "THIS SAN JOSE SUMMIT WILL MAKE THINGS CONFORM TO ESQUIPULAS II AND TELA IF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS ARE LEFT ALONE AND PARTICULARLY IF THEY KNOW THAT NONE OF THEM WILL BE BACKED BY ANY ONE POWER WITH ARMS OR MONEY."</p></body></html>