<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1286"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1286"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1286</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1286 (BOEING)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 16 MAY 90 (TELEONCE TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] TERRORIST ACTIONS WERE REPORTED TONIGHT SOUTH OF GUATEMALA CITY, A FEW HOURS AFTER A MASS TRANSIT BUS AND SEVERAL TIRES WERE BURNED IN OTHER PARTS OF THE CITY. TWO EXPLOSIONS TOOK PLACE IN A VACANT LOT AT APPROXIMATELY 2120 ON 15TH AVENUE AND 6TH STREET, ZONE 13. ACCORDING TO PERSONS WHO WERE NEARBY AT THAT TIME, SHOOTING WAS HEARD BEFORE THE EXPLOSIONS. A FEW MINUTES LATER, DEVICES, BELIEVED TO BE FRAGMENTATION GRENADES, WENT OFF. THE SHOCK WAVE CREATED BY THE BLAST SHATTERED THE WINDOWS OF HOUSE NUMBER 729 AND BUILDING 626, LOCATED IN FRONT OF THE VACANT LOT. THE EXPLOSION PROMPTED THE QUICK MOBILIZATION OF FIREMEN, POLICEMEN, AND SEVERAL ARMY ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIERS FROM LA AURORA MILITARY BASE.</p><p>SEVERAL MEMBERS OF THE SPECIAL ORANGE EXPLOSIVE SQUAD [UNIDAD NARANJA ESPECIAL DE LUCHA ANTIEXPLOSIVOS] ALSO ARRIVED TO DEFUSE ANOTHER DEVICE LEFT IN THE AREA. AT FIRST, IT WAS REPORTED THAT THE HOME CLOSE TO THE SITE OF THE EXPLOSION BELONGEDTO NEWSMAN ALVARO CONTRERAS VELEZ. WE WERE NOT ABLE TO VERIFY THIS REPORT. WE JUST LEARNED THAT A FAMILY BY THE NAME OF DIAZ NAVARRO LIVES THERE. THERE WERE NO FATALITIES, BUT DAMAGE TO THE BUILDINGS ARE REPORTED.</p><p>NEWSMAN CONTRERAS VELEZ, PRENSA LIBRE EDITOR AND AUTHOR OF THE "CACTO" COLUMN, CAME TO THE AREA TO OBSERVE THE DAMAGE. IT WAS UNOFFICIALLY ESTABLISHED THAT SOME GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS LIVE IN THIS SECTOR. MUNICIPAL FIREMEN HELPED POLICE AUTHORITIES IN COMBING THE AREA AFTER THE EXPLOSIONS.</p><p>THE RUMOR THAT A CAR BOMB EXPLODED ON 7TH AVENUE AND 7TH STREET, ZONE 9, CIRCULATED ALMOST SIMULTANEOUSLY. LATER, IT WAS LEARNED THAT THE EXPLOSION WAS CAUSED BY A BOOBY TRAP. THE AUTHORITIES ARE ON ALERT AND STEPPED UP OPERATIONS, A POLICE SPOKESMAN SAID.</p><p>AGAIN AT 2230 TONIGHT, NATIONAL POLICE EXPLOSIVE EXPERTS DISCOVERED ANOTHER DEVICE IN THE VACANT LOT WHERE TWO OTHER BOMBS HAD GONE OFF EARLIER. TEN HOMES WERE DAMAGED BY ONE OF THE EXPLOSIONS, INCLUDING THE HOMES OF DEPUTY FINANCES MINISTER GUSTAVO ADOLFO LEIVA AND GUATEMALA GOVERNOR MARIO LOGORGON. ONLY MATERIAL DAMAGE WAS CAUSED. THE AREA RESIDENTS HAVE BEEN EVACUATED FROM THE SITE. ANOTHER CHARGE WENT OFF IN FRONT OF THE AIR FORCE'S MAIN GATE ALMOST AT THE SAME TIME THE FIRST BOMB WENT OFF. AIR FORCE OFFICIALS CLOSED HINCAPIE AVENUE, FROM LIBERACION BOULEVARD TO SANTA FE. THE OFFICERS REPORTED MATERIAL DAMAGE AND AND AN EXCHANGE OF FIRE IN THE AREA NEARBY. FIREMEN AND POLICEMEN AND SEVERAL ARMY ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIERS PATROLLING THE CITY ARE MAINTANING SECURITY.</p></body></html>