<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0782"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0782"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0782</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0782 (PRC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 17 NOV 89 (INTERPRESS AGENCY [IPS]) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN OPPOSITION POLITICAL PARTIES AND THE PEOPLE'S ORGANIZATIONS TODAY PROPOSED THE CREATION OF A SALVATION JUNTA THAT WOULD INCLUDE THE ARMY AND THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT], HUMBERTO CENTENO -- LEADER OF THE OPPOSITION NATIONAL UNION OF SALVADORAN WORKERS [UNTS] -- HAS ANNOUNCED. IN STATEMENTS TO IPS, CENTENO SAID THE FMLN HAS ALREADY SAID IT IS WILLING TO JOIN THE COUNTRY'S POLITICAL LIFE, AND THAT IT IS WILLING TO BE A PART OF A SALVATION JUNTA AS A SOLUTION TO THE NATIONAL CRISIS.</p><p>THE UNTS' PROPOSAL WAS SUPPORTED BY FIDEL CHAVEZ MENA, CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY [PDC] NATIONAL SECRETARY AND PRESIDENT OF THE LATIN AMERICAN CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC ORGANIZATION, IN STATEMENTS TO THE PRESS. CHAVEZ MENA, WHO WAS THE PDC PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE IN THE PAST ELECTIONS, SAID THAT ONE OF THE WAYS TO SOLVE THE CIVIL WAR PROBLEM WOULD BE FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO RECTIFY ITS STAND AND INITIATE NEW NEGOTIATIONS. WE SHOULD ALL SIT DOWN TO FIND A SOLUTION, HE TOLD NEWSMEN, ADDING THAT NEITHER SIDE WILL ACHIEVE A MILITARY VICTORY.</p><p>MEANWHILE, CENTENO STATED THAT THE BOMBINGS IN DENSELY POPULATED AREAS AND THE MURDER OF SIX JESUIT PRIESTS ARE FACTORS THAT ARE WEARING OUT THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES HIGH COMMAND. ACCORDING TO THE LABOR LEADER, NONE OF THE SOCIAL FORCES WITH ANY REPRESENTATIVE FORCE SUPPORT ALFREDO CRISTIANI AND HIS GOVERNMENT.</p><p>ALTHOUGH THERE IS NOT A GENERAL CONSENSUS, THE POLITICAL AND LABOR GROUPS HAVE SAID THEY ARE IN FAVOR OF A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION AND THE RESUMPTION OF A DIALOGUE WITH THE PRESENCE OF THE OAS AND THE UNITED NATIONS AS WELL AS THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS AS GUARANTORS OF THE AGREEMENTS. HOWEVER, THE PETITION MIGHT NOT BE RECEIVED WELL BY A GOVERNMENT THAT IS APPARENTLY NOT WILLING TO NEGOTIATE A CEASE-FIRE WITH THE REBELS WHO CONTINUE OCCUPYING THE NEIGHBORHOODS IN THE NORTHERN AREA OF THE CAPITAL CITY.</p></body></html>