<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0187"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0187"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0187</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0187 (ADS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 25 APR 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [STATEMENT] [COMMANDER ROBERTO ROCA, MEMBER OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT GENERAL COMMAND] [EXCERPT] THE AMNESTY MENTIONED BY D'AUBUISSON [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE LEADER] IS NOTHING MORE THAN THE REVIVAL OF SOMETHING THAT HAS ALREADY BEEN SOUNDLY DEFEATED. THIS PROPOSAL IS COMPLETELY OUT OF TOUCH WITH THE CURRENT BALANCE OF FORCES AND, AS WE MAY GATHER FROM HIS STATEMENTS, ESSENTIALLY REFLECTS THE PLANS OF THE NEW ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] GOVERNMENT, WHICH WILL BE IMPOSED ON 1 JUNE, TO INTENSIFY THE WAR.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ARE READY TO FACE THE WARMONGERING MANEUVERS OF THE TRUE REPRESENTATIVE OF ARENA DEATHS SQUADS WHO IS NOW TRYING TO CREATE A TERRORIST STATE THROUGH NEW REPRESSIVE ACTIONS. HOWEVER, SINCE ARENA WON THE MARCH ELECTION FARCE, THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ARE BECOMING INCREASINGLY AWARE OF THE NEED TO CONFRONT SUCH REPRESSIVE ACTIONS.</p><p>ARENA HAS NOTHING NEW TO OFFER; IT IS OFFERING OLD AND FAILED TACTICS IN THE FACE OF A NEW SITUATION IN THE COUNTRY; THAT IS, A SIGNFICANT CHANGE IN THE BALANCE OF FORCES IN FAVOR OF THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] AND THE GREAT MAJORITY OF THE PEOPLE. THIS WILL UNDOUBTEDLY ENCOURAGE A STRUGGLE AS SOON AS THE NEW ARENA GOVERNMENT IS INSTALLED.</p><p>D'AUBUISSON AND ARENA WILL SCARE NOBODY WITH PLANS THAT ARE COMPLETELY DETACHED FROM A GENUINE WILLINGNESS TO ACHIEVE PEACE. THE FMLN HAS PRESENTED A PRUDENT PEACE PROPOSAL BASED ON AN OBJECTIVE ANALYSIS OF THE CURRENT BALANCE OF FORCES.</p><p>IT IS IMPORTANT FOR THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE TO REALIZE THAT THE DEGREE OF UNITY REACHED TO FACE ARENA'S PLANS WILL BE THE KEY TO COUNTER THE REPRESSION THAT THE ARMED FORCES AND ARENA ARE ALREADY PROMOTING.</p></body></html>