<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1263"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1263"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1263</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1263 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 3 MAY 90 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY MODERATOR AND REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [MODERATOR] JUAN AMADEO CABRERA FROM LA NOTICIA.</p><p>[CABRERA] MR. PRESIDENT, IF THE COMMUNIQUE ISSUED BY THE YOUNG MILITARY OFFICERS IS TRUE, IF IT IS TRUE THAT THEY ARE MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES, WHAT IS THE OUTLOOK FOR THE ARMED FORCES AND FOR YOUR GOVERNMENT?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] I BELIEVE SOME SPECULATION WOULD BE REQUIRED. I BELIEVE THAT AS AN ANONYMOUS LETTER, IT CANNOT BE GIVEN THE CREDIT IT DESERVES, IF IT WAS WRITTEN BY SOMEONE WHO IS COMPLETELY RESPONSIBLE. IN THIS REGARD, I REPEAT THAT THE ARMED FORCES HAVE BEEN WILLING TO CONDUCT A PROCESS OF PROFESSIONALIZING AND MODERNIZING. THEY ARE TRYING TO IMPROVE THEIR INSTITUTION AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.</p><p>[MODERATOR] LUISA MELGAR FROM TELEPRENSA.</p><p>[MELGAR] MR. PRESIDENT, YESTERDAY THE FMLN CARRIED OUT DIFFERENT ARMED ACTIONS IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE COUNTRY. A COMMUNIQUE ISSUED BY THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND JUSTIFIED THE ACTIONS BECAUSE OF ALLEGED HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS, REPRESSION, AND LACK OF SECURITY FOR CIVILIANS. HOW DO YOU VIEW THESE ACTIONS JUST WHEN THE TALKS ARE ABOUT TO BEGIN?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] I READ THE COMMUNIQUE AND I HONESTLY BELIEVE THAT IT IS ONE OF THE MOST RIDICULOUS FMLN COMMUNIQUES I HAVE SEEN TO DATE. IT IS A JUSTIFICATION THAT IS NOT VERY JUSTIFIABLE, I WOULD SAY. I BELIEVE THE EVENTS ON 1 MAY IN THE MORNING CAN CLEARLY BE UNDERSTOOD. ALL GROUPS WISHING TO PARTICIPATE WERE ABLE TO MARCH PEACEFULLY. THEIR FREEDOMS ARE NOT BEING REPRESSED. I IMAGINE YOU HAVE ALL HEARD AND SEEN WHAT THEY SAID AND DID AND THERE WERE NO PROBLEMS. I FEEL THAT THIS WAS A WAY TO SEEK NOTORIETY THROUGH THE NEWS. THIS COULD BE ONE OF THE REASONS. THE OTHER REASON COULD BE THAT THEY ARE HAVING PROBLEMS AMONG THEMSELVES. WE HAVE INFORMATION TELLING US THAT THERE ARE DIFFERENCES AMONG THE DIFFERENT GROUPS. SOME OF THEM VIEW THE DIALOGUE AS SOMETHING SERIOUS, WHILE OTHERS DO NOT, AND IT COULD BE THAT THESE PROBLEMS ARE RESULTING IN THESE IRRATIONAL ADVENTURES BY THE FMLN. I FEEL THAT AT THIS STAGE OF THE DIALOGUE PROCESS, THEIR ACTIONS ARE COMPLETELY UNJUSTIFIABLE. THAT IS NOT ALL. THEY HAVE EVEN VIOLATED WHAT THEY HAVE CALLED UNILATERAL GESTURES MADE IN THE PAST. THIS SHOWS THE LACK OF SERIOUSNESS AND SINCERITY IN ALL OF THEM, OR SOME OF THEM, CONCERNING THE OBJECTIVES WE ARE TRYING TO ACHIEVE WITH THE DIALOGUE PROCESS.</p><p>[CRISTIANI] GUILLERMO PENATE FROM EL DIARIO DE HOY.</p><p>[PENATE] THERE ARE SOME LABOR GROUPS THAT WANT TO BE INCLUDED IN THE DELEGATION THAT WILL PARTICIPATE IN THE TALKS WITH THE FMLN. COULD THIS NOT BE SOME SORT OF DISADVANTAGE FOR THE OFFICIAL DELEGATION, BECAUSE THE OPPOSITE GROUPS COULD GAIN STRENGTH?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] I THINK THAT IS TRUE. SOME GROUPS HAVE ASKED TO BE INCLUDED IN THE DELEGATION. I BELIEVE THE PARTICIPATION OF THE DIFFERENT GROUPS IS STIPULATED IN THE GENEVA AGREEMENTS. WE HAVE ALREADY EXPLAINED HOW THE GOVERNMENT CAN ALLOW FOR THE PARTICIPATION OF POLITICAL AND SOCIAL SECTORS OF THE COUNTRY. WE ARE NOT GOING TO CHANGE THE GOVERNMENT COMMISSION, WHICH IS COMPRISED OF GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS FOR THE MOST PART. I BELIEVE THAT THE PARTICIPATION OF MEMBERS OF SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS HAS ALREADY BEEN EXPLAINED IN THE PAST.</p><p>[MODERATOR] RAUL BELTRAN FROM RADIO CADENA YSKL.</p><p>[BELTRAN] MR. PRESIDENT, OVER THE PAST FEW HOURS WE HAVE LEARNED ABOUT THE OFFICIAL STATEMENT ISSUED BY THE COMMANDERS OF THE VARIOUS GARRISONS AND THE HIGH COMMAND. SINCE YOU ARE THE COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF THE ARMED FORCES, DO YOU SUPPORT THE DOCUMENT THAT WAS PUBLISHED, WHICH CONDEMNED THE STATEMENTS MADE BY COL. SIGIFREDO OCHOA PEREZ?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] CONCERNING THAT SITUATION, I HAVE SAID THAT SEVERAL PEOPLE HAVE MADE STATEMENTS, NOT JUST ONE. THERE HAS BEEN PUBLIC SPECULATION AS TO WHAT MAY HAVE HAPPENED IN THE ASSASSINATIONS OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS AND THE OTHER TWO PEOPLE AND THAT IS NOT RIGHT. IF SOMEONE HAS ANY INFORMATION TO CONTRIBUTE, AND IF THAT SOMEONE IS REALLY INTERESTED IN THE PROGRESS OF JUSTICE IN THIS COUNTRY, HE SHOULD GO TO THE JUDGE TO GIVE HIM THE INFORMATION. HE SHOULD NOT CONTINUE TO SPECULATE IN PUBLIC, BECAUSE IT CONFUSES PEOPLE AND IT OBSTRUCTS THE JUDICIAL PROCESS.</p><p>I WOULD LIKE TO MENTION, FOR EXAMPLE, THAT NOT LONG AGO A DELEGATION OF SPANISH LEGAL EXPERTS VISITED THE COUNTRY AND THEY WERE PLEASED TO SEE HOW THE 4TH CRIMINAL JUDGE WAS HANDLING THE JUDICIAL PROCESS, AS OPPOSED TO OTHER REPORTS THAT HAVE BEEN RELEASED IN THE UNITED STATES. HOWEVER, I BELIEVE THAT NO ONE SHOULD SPECULATE IN PUBLIC AS TO WHAT MAY HAVE HAPPENED. IF SOMEONE HAS INFORMATION OR EVIDENCE, HE SHOULD GO TO THE JUDGE, OTHERWISE THERE WILL BE CONFUSION. IN THAT REGARD, I BELIEVE THAT THE ARMED FORCES COMMANDERS' REJECTION OF COL. OCHOA'S STATEMENTS IS JUST THAT. IN MANY OF THE STATEMENTS THEY WROTE -- I DID NOT PARTICIPATE IN DRAFTING THE STATEMENT -- THEY MENTIONED THAT THEY ARE WILLING TO SUPPORT AND STRENGTHEN THE JUDICIAL PROCESS, BUT THEY CANNOT COME OUT IN PUBLIC WITH SPECULATION BECAUSE THEY WOULD ONLY CONFUSE PEOPLE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>