<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0208"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0208"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="ASUNCION (PARAGUAY)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0208</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0208 (ADS)</p><p>ASUNCION (PARAGUAY), 16 MAY 89 (ABC COLOR) -- [INTERVIEW WITH PERUVIAN FOREIGN MINISTER GUILLERMO LARCO COX BY ABC COLOR REPORTERS] [TEXT] [REPORTER] DOES YOUR PRESENCE HERE SIGNALS THE CREATION OF A KIND OF CONTINENTAL DEMOCRATIC FRONT, SIMILAR TO THE FRONT OF MILITARY GOVERNMENTS OF THE PAST?</p><p>[LARCO COX] YES. THE PRESENCE HERE OF THE FOREIGN MINISTERS OF THE GROUP OF 8, WITH JUST ONE EXCEPTION, WAS AGREED DURING A PREVIOUS CONVERSATION IN WHICH WE DECIDED THAT PARAGUAY MUST BE GIVEN THE CHANCE THAT IT DESERVES FOLLOWING THE RECENT ELECTIONS THAT REFLECTED THE WILL OF THE PEOPLE. AND THIS IS WHAT WE WANT, THE STRENGTHENING OF DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT DOES ALL THAT MEAN?</p><p>[LARCO COX] IT MEANS THAT THE PARAGUAYAN OPPOSITION WAS ABLE TO PERFORM ITS SUPERVISORY ROLE WITHOUT OBSTACLES, AND THAT THE PROCESS WAS OBSERVED BY INDEPENDENT JOURNALISTS, WHO MADE USE OF FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION TO GUARANTEE THE LEGITIMACY OF THE PROCESS.</p><p>[REPORTER] YOUR REMARKS ARE VERY SIGNIFICANT, PARTICULARLY NOW THAT THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT IS FIGHTING A GUERRILLA FORCE THAT JEOPARDIZES THE DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM.</p><p>[LARCO COX] RIGHT. IN PERU WE ARE FIGHTING FOR HUMAN RIGHTS. IT IS A WELL KNOWN FACT THAT THE WORLD IS RIGHTLY CONCERNED ABOUT THE HUMAN RIGHTS OF THOSE WHO ARE ARRESTED DURING AN ANTISUBVERSIVE ACTION. YET THERE IS LITTLE CONCERN ABOUT THE HUMAN RIGHTS OF THOSE WHO DEFEND DEMOCRACY, WITHIN A DEMOCRACY. DEMOCRACY MUST DEFEND ITSELF. IN THIS CONTEXT THE SUBJECT OF RESPONSIBILITY IS NOT WELL DEFINED.</p><p>[REPORTER] DO YOU MEAN THAT A MILITARY GOVERNMENT IS AT TIMES MORE EFFECTIVE?</p><p>[LARCO COX] NO. IT IS MUCH MORE EFFECTIVE FOR REPRESSION, BUT I MADE IT CLEAR THAT SUBVERSION IN A DEMOCRACY IS UNJUSTIFIED AND THAT DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENTS DO NOT PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS. IF THERE ARE ANY HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS IN A DEMOCRACY, THEY STEM FROM EXCESSES BY THE REPRESSIVE FORCES.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT IS THE DIFFRENCE BETWEEN THESE TYPES OF REPRESSION?</p><p>[LARCO COX] IT IS SIMPLE. IN A DICTATORSHIP, REPRESSION IS WIDESPREAD AND ALMOST ALWAYS ARBITRARY, AND THERE IS NO ONE TO DEFEND HUMAN RIGHTS.</p><p>[REPORTER] IT IS ESTIMATED THAT ALAN GACIA HAS ALREADY SHOWN THAT THERE IS A LIMIT TO WHAT A CHARISMATIC LEADER CAN DO. IN FACT, HE IS YOUNG, HANDSOME, AND HE IS A GOOD SPEAKER. HOWEVER, HE COULD NOT SOLVE THE PROBLEMS. WHAT DOES PERU NEED IN ORDER TO IMPLEMENT THE MUCH DESIRED STABILIZATION OF THE DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS?</p><p>[LARCO COX] PERU NEEDS ECONOMIC STABILITY, BECAUSE THE GOVERNMENT EXPERIENCE AND WITH A STRONG DESIRE TO DISTRIBUTE WEALTH. THE DISTRIBUTION OF WEALTH WAS DONE DURING THE FIRST 2 AND 1/2 YEARS. THE NEGATIVE SIDE OF THIS IS THAT DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION WAS OVERSTIMULATED. EVEN THOUGH IT MIGHT SEEM CONTRADICTORY, OUR PRODUCTIVE APPARATUS NEEDED MORE IMPORTED MATERIALS IN ORDER TO INCREASE LOCAL PRODUCTION. THIS LED TO A DANGEROUS DECREASE IN OUR RESERVES. SIMULTANEOUSNLY, THE BANK NATIONALIZATION LAW WAS SET IN MOTION. THIS PROVIDED THE PERFECT FRAMEWORK FOR THE DESTRUCTION OF THE SYSTEM. THERE WAS ALSO THE EARLY START TO THE ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN, AND FINALLY THE RADICAL OPPOSITION BY THE BUSINESS SECTOR OF A DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT.</p><p>[REPORTER] THERE HAS ALSO BEEN A GROWTH IN THE CRIME RATE AND THE COSTLY PROCESS OF FIGHTING THE SHINING PATH GUERRILLAS IN THE MOUNTAINS AND IN URBAN TERRORIST ACTIONS. THIS COULD EASILY LEAD TO THE CONCLUSION THAT PERUVIAN DEMOCRACY DOES NOT HAVE GOOD PROSPECTS, RIGHT?</p><p>[LARCO COX] QUITO TO THE CONTRARY. DEMOCRACY WILL BE PRESERVED EVEN IF THE NORMAL HANDING OVER OF POWER TO THE NEW ADMINISTRATION BECOMES THE ONLY OBJECTIVE OF THE RECENTLY INSTALLED CABINET. THIS, HOWEVER, WILL BECOME THE SOLE OBJECTIVE ONLY IN AN ESTREME SITUATION. THERE ARE OBVIOUSLY OTHER OBJECTIVES, BUT I WANT TO STRESS THE SIGNIFICANCE THAT WE ATTACH TO THE HANDING OVER OF POWER TO THE WINNER OF CLEAN ELECTIONS, WITH GUARANTEES FOR ALL OPPOSITION PARTIES. THIS IS HOW THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS WILL BE PRESERVED AND THIS IS HOW THIS GOVERNMENT WILL ATTAIN ONE OF ITS MAIN TARGETS.</p></body></html>