<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0459"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0459"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0459</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0459 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 10 SEP 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUALS TODAY BROKE INTO A FARM OWNED BY CARLOS OSSA, MANAGER OF THE COLOMBIAN INSTITUTE OF AGRARIAN REFORM (INCORA), KILLED A WATCHMAN, AND SET FIRE TO THE FARM. AUTHORITIES VIEW THIS ACTION AS A CONTINUATION OF TERRORISM BY THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE INCIDENT OCCURRED IN SEVILLA MUNICIPALITY (370 KM FROM BOGOTA), WHERE APPROXIMATELY FIVE INDIVIDUALS SHOT TO DEATH A WATCHMAN WHO TRIED TO PREVENT THEM FROM ENTERING THE FARM.</p><p>AFTER THE 18 AUGUST ASSASSINATION OF SENATOR AND PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE LUIS CARLOS GALAN, THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT ORDERED A RELENTLESS OFFENSIVE AGAINST THE DRUG MAFIAS, WHICH HAVE REACTED BY CARRYING OUT BOMB ATTACKS AND THREATING TO KILL OFFICIALS, JUDGES, BUSINESSMEN, AND JOURNALISTS.</p><p>AS INCORA MANAGER, OSSA HAS LAUNCHED AN INTENSE CAMPAIGN TO CONFISCATE LAND OWNED BY THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS AND DISTRIBUTE IT TO PEASANTS AS PART OF THE AGRARIAN REFORM BEING CARRIED OUT BY THE ADMINISTRATION OF PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO.</p><p>"WE ARE NOT RULING OUT THAT THE CRIMINALS ARE TAKING REPRISALS AGAINST OSSA AND ALL THE OFFICIALS WHO REJECT THE ACTIVITIES BY THOSE CRIMINALS," A POLICE SPOKESMAN TOLD DPA.</p><p>IN ANOTHER ACTION ATTRIBUTED TO THE MAFIAS, SEVERAL MEN LAST NIGHT WOUNDED A WATCHMAN AT AN APARTMENT BUILDING WHERE MARIA VICTORIA GALAN, THE SISTER OF GALAN, LIVES. ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL REPORT, THEY WERE PLANNING TO ATTACK HER.</p><p>THE RESOLUTE ACTION OF WATCHMAN JAVIER VELASCO PREVENTED THE GUNMEN, WHO WERE RIDING MOTORCYCLES, FROM ENTERING MRS GALAN'S APARTMENT.</p><p>MEANWHILE, MEMBERS OF THE ARMY, POLICE, AND SECURITY FORCES CONTINUED TO PATROL THE COLOMBIAN CITIES TO PREVENT TERRORIST ACTIONS BY THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS WHO HAVE THREATENED TO KILL 10 COLOMBIAN JUDGES FOR EVERY MAFIA CHIEF WHO IS EXTRADITED.</p><p>THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT LAST NIGHT AUTHORIZED THE EXTRADITION OF ELENA BEATRIZ ZUNIGA RODRIGUEZ, ACCUSED BY THE U.S. AUTHORITIES OF SMUGGLING COCAINE. THIS BRINGS TO TWO THE NUMBER OF COLOMBIANS WHOSE EXTRADITION IS AUTHORIZED IN LESS THAN A WEEK. EDUARDO MARTINEZ ROMERO, SUSPECTED "FINANCE CHIEF" OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, WAS SENT TO THE UNITED STATES ON WEDNESDAY.</p><p>THE BOMBINGS HAVE MAINLY AFFECTED BOGOTA AND MEDELLIN, WHERE AUTHORITIES HAVE IMPLEMENTED UNPRECEDENTED SECURITY MEASURES TO PREVENT TERRORIST ACTIONS.</p><p>A POLICE SPOKESMAN SAID THAT SECURITY HAS BEEN REINFORCED IN TERMINALS, GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS, MEDIA OFFICES, AND AQUEDUCTS OF THE MAIN CITIES BECAUSE OF CONSTANT THREATS THAT THE MAFIAS WILL BLOW UP THOSE LOCATIONS.</p><p>MANY RESIDENTS OF BOGOTA HAVE BEEN COMMENTING ON RUMORS THAT THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS PLAN TO PLACE TOXIC SUBSTANCES IN THE AQUEDUCT OF THIS CITY OF 6 MILLION PEOPLE. THE RUMOR HAS NEITHER BEEN DENIED NOR CONFIRMED BY AUTHORITIES.</p></body></html>