<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0775"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0775"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0775</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0775 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 17 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] WE RECENTLY HEARD U.S. AMBASSADOR WILLIAM WALKER ON A SALVADORAN TELEVISION NEWSCAST. HE SAID NO ONE KNEW EXACTLY WHO HAD PLANNED THE MURDER OF FATHER IGNACIO ELLACURIA AND THE OTHER JESUIT PRIESTS WHO WERE ASSASSINATED EARLY YESTERDAY MORNING.</p><p>RADIO VENCEREMOS TELLS WILLIAM WALKER THAT HIS CYNICISM IS BEYOND THE LIMIT. WILLIAM WALKER KNOWS PERFECTLY WELL WHICH GENERAL STAFF OFFICE ISSUED THE ORDER TO ASSASSINATE THE JESUIT PRIESTS.</p><p>WILLIAM WALKER KNOWS THAT ON THE NIGHT OF 11 NOVEMBER RADIO CUSCATLAN URGED THE PEOPLE TO ASSASSINATE IGNACIO ELLACURIA, RUBEN ZAMORA, AND DOCTOR GUILLERMO UNGO. THE WHOLE WORLD.... [CORRECTS HIMSELF] THE INTERNATIONAL MEDIA HAS FEATURED THE RECORDING IN WHICH RADIO CUSCATLAN -- THE ARMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF'S RADIO, MEANING THE RADIO CONTROLLED BY THE ARMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF, THE RADIO IN WHICH NOT A SINGLE WORD, NOT A SINGLE COMMA GOES OUT WITHOUT THE APPROVAL OF THE CENSORS WHICH HAVE BEEN IMPOSED ON RADIO CUSCATLAN - - [WORDS INDISTINCT] DEATH.</p><p>THEREFORE, WILLIAM WALKER KNOWS PERFECTLY WELL WHERE THE ORDER CAME FROM; HE KNOWS THE EXACT TIME THAT 40 UNIFORMED MEN LEFT IN [WORDS INDISTINCT] CURFEW, A FEW BLOCKS FROM COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE'S OFFICE. WILLIAM WALKER'S CYNICISM WENT BEYOND THE LIMIT WHEN HE SAID THAT HE DOES NOT KNOW [WORDS INDISTINCT] OR WHO PLANNED IGNACIO ELLACURIA'S ASSASSINATION.</p><p>WILLIAM WALKER IS DOING A HISTORICAL IMITATION OF THE FILIBUSTER WHO CAME TO CENTRAL AMERICA IN 1856 TO SUBJUGATE OUR PEOPLE AND BECOME PRESIDENT OF A CENTRAL AMERICAN NATION, MEANING NICARAGUA, WHO DECREED THAT ENGLISH BE THE OFFICIAL LANGUAGE, AND THAT THE U.S. FLAG BECOME THE OCCUPATION FORCES' FLAG. WILIAM WALKER IS RE- EDITING A SHAMEFUL CHAPTER IN CENTRAL AMERICA'S HISTORY. WILLIAM WALKER, THE U.S. AMBASSADOR IN OUR HOMELAND, IS RE-EDITING -- IN THE FORM OF A CARICATURE -- A HISTORICAL EVENT WHICH OCCURRED IN THE 19TH CENTURY. HOWEVER, WE WANT TO TELL SOMETHING TO THE NEW WILLIAM WALKER, WHO HAS BEEN FEATURED IN PRESS AND TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS GIVING FIGURES WHICH DIFFER EVEN FROM THOSE GIVEN BY COL PONCE; THE NEW WILLIAM WALKER, WHO THINKS HE IS PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC AND IS BETTER THAN CRISTIANI AND COL PONCE, SO HE GIVES INVENTED FIGURES ON GUERRILLA CASUALTIES; THE NEW WILLIAM WALKER, WHO EVALUATES THE NATION'S POLITICAL AND MILITARY SITUATION, EVEN BEFORE CRISTIANI AND PONCE DO SO, EVEN CONTRADICTING COL PONCE'S FIGURES. WILLIAM WALKER SAID 40 MEMBERS OF THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] WERE CAPTURED, YET THE BLEARY-EYED COL PONCE LAST NIGHT TALKED ABOUT 9 FMLN MEMBERS. WHERE, THEN, ARE THE REST OF THE CAPTURED FMLN FIGHTERS?</p><p>HUMANITARIAN GROUPS SHOULD PAY ATTENTION TO THAT CONTRADICTION BETWEEN PRESIDENT WILLIAM WALKER AND HIS SUBORDINATE, COL PONCE. RED CROSS INTERNATIONAL, GREEN CROSS, AND AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL MUST DEMAND THAT WILLIAM WALKER SAY WHERE THE CAPTURED GUERRILLA FIGHTERS ARE, BECAUSE COL PONCE ONLY MENTIONS NINE FIGHTERS. COL PONCE TALKS ABOUT NINE AND THE OTHER ONE TALKS ABOUT DOZENS. THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY MUST PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE CONTRADICTION BETWEEN PRESIDENT WILLIAM WALKER AND HIS SUBORDINATE, COL PONCE. WHERE ARE THE OTHER CAPTURED FIGHTERS? MOST OF THEM WERE SURELY CIVILIANS WHO HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH THE CONFLICT. THEY MUST HAVE BEEN CAUGHT IN THE WAR ZONES AND THEN PRESENTED TO THE MEDIA AS DEAD GUERRILLA FIGHTERS.</p><p>WE DEMAND, BEFORE THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, THAT AMBASSADOR WILLIAM WALKER CLEARLY SAY HOW COL PONCE COULD HAVE BEEN MISTAKEN WHEN ADMITTING THAT ONLY NINE GUERRILLA FIGHTERS WERE CAPTURED -- WHILE THE U.S. AMBASSADOR PERSONALLY REVEALED THE FIGURES THAT SHOULD HAVE BEEN REVEALED BY PRESIDENT CRISTIANI A LONG TIME AGO -- EVEN IF THEY WERE IMAGINARY FIGURES. WILLIAM WALKER MUST ANSWER THIS QUESTION: WHERE ARE THE GUERRILLA FIGHTERS?</p></body></html>