<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0423"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0423"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MEDELLIN"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0423</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0423 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>MEDELLIN, 4 SEP 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] A NEW TERRORIST ACTION SHOOK MEDELLIN IN NORTHWESTERN COLOMBIA THIS EVENING WHEN TWO MEN RIDING ON A MOTORCYCLE THREW AN EXPLOSIVE DEVICE AT A POLICE POST LOCATED IN THE EXCLUSIVE SUBURB OF EL POBLADO. MIRACULOUSLY, THE THREE POLICEMEN AND TWO CIVILIANS WHO WERE INSIDE ESCAPED INJURY.</p><p>THE POST, KNOWN AS AN IMMEDIATE ATTENTION CENTER (CAI), WHICH PLAYS THE ROLE OF A POLICE CONTROL POST, WAS DESTROYED BY THE EXPLOSION OF THE DEVICE.</p><p>THREE POLICEMEN AND TWO CIVILIANS WERE INSIDE THE POST, WHICH WAS NOT FULLY OPERATIONAL BECAUSE IT HAD NOT BEEN COMPLETELY BUILT, BUT MANAGED TO ESCAPE.</p><p>ONE OF THE POLICEMEN TOLD AFP THAT THEY SAW TWO MEN ON A MOTORCYCLE SWIFTLY PASSING BY THE CAI AND THEN THROWING A RED PLASTIC BAG.</p><p>THE THREE POLICEMEN AND THE TWO CIVILIANS MANAGED TO RUN A FEW METERS DOWN THE STREET BEFORE THE DEVICE EXPLODED.</p><p>ALTHOUGH THE DEVICE'S POWER HAS YET TO BE ESTABLISHED BY EXPERTS, THE DETONATION WAS STRONG ENOUGH TO DESTROY THE STRUCTURE, MEASURING APPROXIMATELY 11 SQUARE METERS.</p><p>PRECISELY 1 MONTH AGO THE SAME CAI HAD BEEN DESTROYED WHEN ITS WALLS WERE BEING CONSTRUCTED.</p><p>A WOMAN WHO PASSED THROUGH THE AREA AT THE TIME OF THE ATTACK WAS NOT INJURED EITHER, EVEN THOUGH HER VEHICLE SUSTAINED CONSIDERABLE DAMAGE, PARTICULARLY THE WINDOWS, WHICH WERE DESTROYED.</p><p>THE NEW TERRORIST ACTION OCCURRED 12 HOURS AFTER A MAN WAS INVOLVED IN A SPECTACULAR SHOOT-OUT AT THE JOSE MARIA CORDOBA AIRPORT IN MEDELLIN, WHERE THE GUNMAN AND A YOUNG MAN DIED AND 10 PERSONS WERE WOUNDED, INCLUDING THREE POLICEMEN.</p><p>THE CAI'S DESTRUCTION OCCURRED 4 HOURS AFTER THE BEGINNING OF THE CURFEW, IMPOSED BY MAYOR JUAN GOMEZ MARTINEZ 6 DAYS AGO IN AN ATTEMPT TO CURTAIL THE TERRORIST ACTIONS WHICH HAVE SHAKEN THE CITY, BIRTHPLACE OF THE MEDELLIN DRUG CARTEL.</p></body></html>