<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0249"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0249"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0249</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0249 (ADS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 15 JUN 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN)] [TEXT] CONCERNING DR JOSE ANTONIO RODRIGUEZ PORTH'S DEATH, THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT GENERAL COMMAND REPORTS THE FOLLOWING TO ALL SALVADORANS:</p><p>1. AS A RESULT OF INVESTIGATIONS WE HAVE CONDUCTED, WE CONFIRM THAT THE FMLN BEARS NO RESPONSIBILITY WHATSOEVER FOR THE ATTACK ON DR RODRIGUEZ PORTH. WE DELAYED MAKING THIS STATEMENT TO MAKE CERTAIN THAT THERE WERE NO CIRCUMSTANTIAL OR OTHER REASONS THAT COULD HAVE INVOLVED US IN THE ATTACK.</p><p>2. FOLLOWING RODRIGUEZ PORTH'S DEATH, SEVERAL GROUPS HAVE CONDUCTED MARKEDLY VENGEFUL ACTIONS. COLONEL OCHOA PEREZ, FOR EXAMPLE, HAS PROPOSED FIGHTING FIRE WITH FIRE. FRANCISCO MERINO HAS THREATENED OPPOSITION LEADERS WITH DEATH. RICARDO ALVARENGA VALDIVIESO HAS PROPOSED REPRESSIVE NEW LAWS.</p><p>WE HEREBY WARN THAT IF REPRISALS ARE TAKEN AGAINST THE OPPOSITION MOVEMENT, WE WILL TAKE FIRM AND RESOLUTE ACTION AGAINST ANY ESCALATION IN REPRESSION.</p><p>3. WE FIND THE FALSE COMMOTION AMONG THE RANKS OF THE ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] PARTY REPULSIVE, BECAUSE EVERYONE KNOWS OF THEIR RESPONSIBILITY IN KILLINGS LIKE THAT OF MONSIGNOR ROMERO, OF THE MEMBERS OF THE FDR [REVOLUTIONARY DEMOCRATIC FRONT] EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, AND SO MANY OTHERS. WE DO NOT BELIEVE IN THEIR ALLEGED INNOCENCE, AND DO EVEN LESS AT A TIME WHEN REPRESSIVE ACTIONS ARE BEING INTENSIFIED.</p><p>4. OUR ATTENTION HAS BEEN DRAWN TO THE FACT THAT THE ATTACK ON RODRIGUEZ PORTH OCCURRED WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF AN INTENSE STRUGGLE BETWEEN THE ENTREPRENEURIAL SECTOR [OF ARENA] AND D'AUBUISSON'S SUPPORTERS TO GAIN CONTROL OF THE PARTY, AND WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF A DISPUTE FOR THE DEFENSE MINISTRY. IN THE LATTER CASE, RODRIGUEZ PORTH'S ACTIONS DID AWAY WITH GENERAL BUSTILLO'S ASPIRATIONS. THERE ARE PRECEDENTS FOR THE LINE OF CONDUCT OF ARENA FACTIONS AND FOR THESE INTERNAL CONFRONTATIONS. WE RECALL THE ATTACK THAT ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON PERPETRATED AGAINST FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR THOMAS PICKERING. WE ALSO REMEMBER HOW IMPORTANT MEN CLOSE TO MAJOR ROBERTO D'AUBUISSION PARTICIPATED IN THE KIDNAPPING OF BUSINESSMEN. MAJOR D'AUBUISSION'S SILENCE CONCERNING THE ATTACK ON RODRIGUEZ PORTH IS NOTEWORTHY.</p><p>THE FMLN UNDERSTANDS THE CONCERN OF THE VARIOUS NATIONAL SECTORS AND THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY IN THE SENSE THAT ARENA MAY USE THIS FACT TO JUSTIFY IRRATIONAL RETALIATORY ACTIONS. IF A SITUATION IS BROUGHT ABOUT, INVOLVING AN INCREASE IN VIOLENCE AND EXPANSION OF THE WAR, IT WILL BE THE ARENA GOVERNMENT'S SOLE RESPONSIBILITY, NOT OURS.</p><p>FOR THIS REASON, WE HAVE RAISED WITH THE POLITICAL PARTIES THE NEED TO CREATE CONDITIONS FOR ESTABLISHING A FAVORABLE CLIMATE FOR DIALOGUE AND A NEGOTIATED POLITICAL SOLUTION. WE REITERATE OUR TOTAL READINESS TO CONTRIBUTE TOWARD THIS EFFORT. THE FMLN REASSERTS TO ALL THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE THAT WE WILL CONTINUE TO ADHERE TO THE TRUTH AND THAT THAT WE WILL BE FULLY RESPONSIBLE FOR OUR ACTIONS AT ALL TIMES AND UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES.</p><p>[SIGNED] FMLN GENERAL COMMAND</p><p>[DATED] 15 JUNE 198, EL SALVADOR</p></body></html>