<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0615"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0615"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY (EL SALVADOR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0615</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0615 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>NO CITY (EL SALVADOR), 29 OCT 89 (FBIS) -- [EDITORIAL REPORT] [TEXT] RADIO VENCEREMOS IN SPANISH TO EL SALVADOR AT 0000 GMT ON 30 OCTOBER BROADCASTS A WEEKLY MILITARY BULLETIN. ACCORDING TO THE REPORT, "THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIUONAL LIBERATION FRONT] INFLICTED A TOTAL OF 52 CASUALTIES IN VARIOUS ATTACKS ON ENEMY POSITIONS AND AMBUSHES ON MOVING MILITARY CONVOYS DURING THE WEEK THAT HAS JUST ENDED. THESE CASUALTIES INCLUDE AN ARTILLERY LIEUTENANT."</p><p>THE REPORT GOES ON TO SAY THAT "ANTIAIRCRAFT ACTIONS HAVE OCCURRED IN CINQUERA, CABANAS DEPARTMENT, ALSO THIS WEEK. AS THE STATION REPORTED EARLIER IN THE WEEK, A UH-1H TRANSPORT HELICOPTER WAS DAMAGED. ARTILLERY TROOPS WERE ATTACKED BETWEEN SAN PABLO TACACHICO AND SAN ISIDRO, LA LIBERTAD DEPARTMENT. COPREFA [ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE] HAS ADMITTED THAT AN ARTILLERY LIEUTENANT WAS INCLUDED IN THE CASUALTIES. TROOPS FROM THE 5TH INFANTRY BRIGADE, WHO OPERATED IN CINQUERA OUT OF THEIR JURISDICTION, WERE WORN OUT DURING THE WEEK."</p><p>THE STATION ALSO SAYS THAT "THE ATLACATL BATTALION WAS ATTACKED ON THE SLOPES OF THE SAN SALVADOR VOLCANO, NEJAPA JURISDICTION. FMLN TROOPS ALSO ATTACKED LOCAL TROOPS IN SAN AGUSTIN IN USULUTAN DEPARTMENT, YAMABAL IN MORAZAN DEPARTMENT, AND SUCHITOTO IN CUSCATLAN DEPARTMENT. VARIOUS SABOTAGING ACTIONS OCCURRED DURING THE WEEK. SAN VICENTE DEPARTMENT, IN THE PARACENTRAL FRONT, SUFFERED SABOTAGE ON THE GREATEST NUMBER OF PYLONS AND POSTS BY OUR SAPPERS."</p></body></html>