<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0322"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0322"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0322</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0322 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 2 AUG 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [EXCERPTS] THE SALVADORAN ARMY IS ON A STATE OF ALERT AND HAS INCREASED ITS SURVEILLANCE IN SAN SALVADOR TO COUNTER A NEW GUERRILLA OFFENSIVE, WHICH HAS CAUSED AT LEAST 48 MILITARY CASUALTIES OVER THE PAST 24 HOURS IN SEVERAL ACTIONS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.</p><p>TREASURY POLICE DIRECTOR COLONEL HERIBERTO HERNANDEZ REPORTED THAT THE STATE OF ALERT IS DESIGNED TO PREVENT SABOTAGE AND THE DELIVERY OF WEAPONS FOR THE GUERRILLAS. IT INCLUDES AN INCREASE IN LAND AND AIR PATROLS AND SEARCHES OF BUSES AND PRIVATE VEHICLES.</p><p>THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) OFFENSIVE HAS BEEN LAUNCHED TO PROTEST THE GOVERNMENT'S LATEST ECONOMIC MEASURES, INCLUDING THE DEREGULATION OF STAPLE PRICES, THE PRIVATIZATION OF COFFEE EXPORTS AND BANKING ACTIVITIES, AND AN INCREASE IN BUS FARES AND ELECTRICITY BILLS.</p><p>COL HERNANDEZ SAID: "THE GOVERNMENT WANTS WHAT IS BEST FOR THE PEOPLE, SO LAND TRANSPORTATION USERS WILL LOGICALLY BE AFFECTED BY THE INCREASE, BUT BUSINESSMEN ARE ALSO TRYING TO SOLVE THEIR PROBLEMS."</p><p>A CLANDESTINE REBEL STATION ASSERTED THAT THE ATTACKS WERE CARRIED OUT IN MORAZAN, USULUTAN, METAPAN, SAN MIGUEL, CABANAS, SAN VICENTE, LA PAZ, SAN SALVADOR, AND THE CONFLICT-RIDDEN CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES CLAIMED THEY HAD NO INFORMATION ON THE NUMBER OF CASUALTIES OR THE CLASHES ANNOUNCED BY THE FMLN AND ASSERTED THAT, CONTRARY TO THE FMLN REPORT, THREE GUERRILLA FIGHTERS HAD DIED AND FIVE HAD BEEN KILLED IN VARIOUS CLASHES THAT OCCURRED IN NORTHERN AND EASTERN TOWNS, AND IN THE SALVADORAN CAPITAL.</p><p>NEVERTHELESS, THE ARMY RECOGNIZED THAT TWO SOLDIERS AND TWO CIVILIANS HAD DIED, AND FOUR WERE WOUNDED IN ATTACKS ON ARMY POSITIONS AND IN AMBUSHES AGAINST ARMY AND GOVERNMENT VEHICLES.</p><p>THE REBELS ALSO INCREASED THEIR SABOTAGE ACTIVITIES AGAINST THE ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM AND BLEW UP A STILL UNDETERMINED NUMBER OF STRUCTURES AND TELEPHONE EXCHANGE BOXES IN SAN SALVADOR. THEY ALSO ANNOUNCED THAT THEY HAVE PLACED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES ON SOME OF THE COUNTRY'S MAIN HIGHWAYS.</p></body></html>