<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0890"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0890"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0890</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0890 (GTE)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 28 NOV 89 (PL) -- [TEXT] HEAVY CLASHES ARE STILL TAKING PLACE IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR FOLLOWING A NIGHT OF FIERCE COMBAT, WHICH CONFIRMS PREDICTIONS ON THE INTENSIFICATION OF THE WAR THIS WEEK.</p><p>PRESS REPORTS RELEASED FROM SAN SALVADOR AT NOON TODAY REPORT THE CONTINUATION OF CLASHES BETWEEN THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] AND THE ARMED FORCES, BASICALLY IN NEIGHBORHOODS IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>AYUTUXTEPEQUE, SOYAPANGO, ZACAMIL, AND SAN RAMON, ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF SAN SALVADO, SEEM TO HAVE BEEN OCCUPIED AGAIN BY GUERRILLA COLUMNS, WHICH CONTROLLED THOSE NEIGHBORHOODS DURING THE FIRST DAYS OF THE NATIONAL OFFENSIVE WHICH BEGAN ON 11 NOVEMBER.</p><p>IN ITS MOST RECENT NEWSCAST, THE FMLN'S RADIO VENCEREMOS REPORTED THE AIR FORCE HEAVILY BOMBED AYUTUXTEPEQUE, A DENSELY POPULATED NEIGHBORHOOD, AND CONFIRMED THE CLASHES TAKING PLACE IN SOYAPANGO.</p><p>THE SOURCE REPORTED THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES ELITE TROOPS, AND EVEN INFANTRY BRIGADES FROM MILITARY DETACHMENTS TRADITIONALY STATIONED IN THE COUNTRYSIDE, HAVE BEEN DEPLOYED TO SAN SALVADOR IN AN ATTEMPT TO REPEL THE REBELS' ACTIONS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE GUERRILLA REPORTS, DESPITE THE CONTINUOUS BOMBINGS, CLASHES ARE TAKING PLACE AT THIS TIME IN THE CAPITAL OF SAN MIGUEL DEPARTMENT, IN THE EASTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY. SEVERAL SECTORS OF THE PANAMERICAN HIGHWAY, ESPECIALLY IN EASTERN SAN SALVADOR, REMAIN UNDER THE FMLN CONTROL, RADIO VENCEREMOS REPORTED.</p><p>THE CENTRAL AMERICAN MEDIA TODAY WARNED ABOUT THE SERIOUSNESS OF THE INCIDENTS IN SAN SALVADOR THIS MORNING, WHEN GROUPS OF UNIDENTIFIED MEN MACHINEGUNNED FORMER SUPREME COURT PRESIDENT FRANCISCO GUERRERO, A WELL- KNOWN LEADER OF THE RIGHTWING NATIONAL CONCILIATION PARTY. SOURCES CONSULTED IN SAN SALVADOR, WHICH PREFER NOT TO BE IDENTIFIED, SAID IT IS A FACT THE FAR RIGHTWING IS LINKED TO THIS CRIME. THE SAME SOURCES MAINTAINED THAT THE RECENT ANNOUNCEMENT ON THE SUSPENSION OF DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH MANAGUA, MADE BY PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI, CAUSED DISAGREEMENTS AMONG THE GOVERNMENT BRANCHES AND AMONG THE VARIOUS PARTIES.</p></body></html>