<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0359"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0359"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0359</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0359 (BBN)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [INTERVIEW WITH D'AUBUISSON BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [REPORTER] THIS OFFICIAL TOLD YOU THAT? DOES THIS OFFICIAL, WHOSE NAME YOU DO NOT DISCLOSE, HAVE CREDIBILITY WITH THE GOVERNMENT?</p><p>[D'AUBUISSON] ALLOW ME TO RESERVE THE IDENTITY OF THE SOURCE, BUT HE DOES HAVE MUCH CREDIBILITY. HE IS SOMEONE WHO IS VERY FAMILIAR WITH THAT MOVEMENT, AND HE DOES HAVE CREDIBILITY. THE INTERESTING ASPECT OF THIS IS THE WAY THIS BIG MANGY DOG, THIS MR VILLALOBOS, THINKS. IF HE WANTS TO COME HERE AND PARTICIPATE, WE'LL TAKE HIS WORD, AND LET US SEE IF HE WILL REALLY HAVE A LANDSLIDE VICTORY.</p><p>[REPORTER] WOULD THERE BE ANY GUARANTEES FOR HIS PARTICIPATION?</p><p>[D'AUBUISSON] DIDN'T I JUST TELL YOU THAT THE FIRST MANGY DOGS, UNGO AND ZAMORA, ARE ALREADY HERE? WE DO HAVE THE BEST OF INTENTIONS; THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO DO THIS. NOW, IF THEY ACTUALLY WANT TO DO IT, THAT IS A DIFFERENT STORY. I AM JUST TELLING YOU ABOUT THE FIRST INDICATIONS WE HAVE HAD, IN ADDITION TO SOME NOTES ON THE ELECTIONS THAT HAVE BEEN SENT BY SOME WHO CLAIM TO BE COMMANDERS. THE OVERALL PICTURE HAS CHANGED SOMEWHAT IN THE LAST FEW YEARS.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT IS THAT CHANGE, MAJOR?</p><p>[D'AUBUISSON] IN PRACTICALLY ALL OF THE NOTES THEY [THE FMLN COMMANDERS] HAVE SENT, INCLUDING THE ONES SENT PRIOR TO THE ELECTIONS, THEY SAID THAT IF THE ELECTIONS WERE POSTPONED THEY WOULD PARTICIPATE. THAT IS AN INDICATION THAT THEY DO HAVE PLANS TO JOIN THE PROCESS.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT DOES THIS MEAN, MAJOR?</p><p>[D'AUBUISSON] IT MEANS TWO BASIC THINGS: ONE, THEY ARE LOST. THE OPTION TO SEIZE POWER THROUGH VIOLENT MEANS NO LONGER EXISTS.</p><p>[REPORTER] IN OTHER WORDS, THEY ARE LOST IN THE MILITARY FIELD?</p><p>[D'AUBUISSON] THEY ARE LOST BOTH IN THE MILITARY FIELD AND IN THE OPTION TO SEIZE POWER THROUGH VIOLENT MEANS. SECOND, THEY NO LONGER HAVE THE SUPPORT, AND WE HAVE BEEN ANALYZING THAT FOR SOME TIME NOW. THERE IS NO LONGER ANY SUPPORT FOR THIS TYPE OF REBEL MOVEMENT, FOR THIS TYPE OF ARMED REBEL MOVEMENT TO SEIZE POWER.</p><p>[REPORTER] YOU MEAN SUPPORT FROM THE USSR?</p><p>[D'AUBUISSON] THERE IS NO SUPPORT FROM THE COMMUNIST WORLD IN GENERAL. NATURALLY, THIS IS BASED VERY MUCH ON THE SO-CALLED PERESTROYKA. THEREFORE, THEY WILL HAVE TO JOIN THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS, BECAUSE OTHERWISE THEY ARE GOING TO BE LEFT OUT. IF THEY WANT TO CONTINUE SHOOTING BULLETS JUST FOR THE SAKE OF SHOOTING, THEY ARE GOING TO BE LEFT OUT OF EVERYTHING AND EVERYONE.</p><p>[REPORTER] THERE IS MUCH TALK HERE ABOUT FORMING AN INTERNAL OPPOSITION FRONT; I BELIEVE THIS IS PART OF THE "EVERYONE AGAINST ARENA" CAMPAIGN. DO YOU HAVE ANY KNOWLEDGE ABOUT THIS AND THE LINE THIS INTERNAL FRONT MIGHT FOLLOW?</p><p>[D'AUBUISSON] WELL, NOT EXACTLY. HOWEVER, IT IS LOGICAL THAT AN INTERNAL POLITICAL FRONT COULD BE FORMED. THAT WOULD BE A POLITICAL PROCESS WITHIN A DEMOCRATIC PROCESS. IT IS ALL RIGHT TO DO THAT. THEY HAVE ALL THE RIGHT IN THE WORLD TO DO THAT.</p><p>NOW, THERE ARE SUBVERSIVE THOUGHTS. WE ARE REFERRING TO THOSE BIG MANGY DOGS WHO WANT TO TAKE THE FIRST STEPS IN JOINING THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS. ON THE OTHER HAND, THEY ARE SUBVERSIVE INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE DISRUPTING PUBLIC ORDER. IF WHAT THEY WANT IS TO CAUSE HARM AND HINDER THE PROGRAMS PREPARED BY PRESIDENT CRISTIANI AND HIS CABINET, THEY ARE GOING TO GO AHEAD AND DO IT ANYHOW.</p><p>REMEMBER THAT VERY SIMPLE PHRASE I TOLD YOU AT THE BEGINNING. THEY CLAIM THAT IF ARENA FAILS, THEY ARE THE ALTERNATIVE. THAT IS WHAT THE GROUP OF UNGO, ZAMORA, AND ALL THOSE REALLY THINKS. THERE IS ANOTHER GREAT POSSIBILITY, AND THAT IS WHAT IS REALLY GOING TO HAPPEN HERE: ARENA WILL NOT FAIL. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WILL NOT FAIL. HOWEVER, THEY ARE GOING TO TRY ALL THE ILLEGAL, SUBVERSIVE ACTIONS THEY CAN TO MAKE US FAIL. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>