<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1042"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1042"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="PANAMA CITY (PANAMA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1042</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1042 (TRW)</p><p>PANAMA CITY (PANAMA), 12 JAN 90 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] SOME 150 PEOPLE THREW STONES AT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY IN PANAMA CITY TODAY TO PROTEST THE PRESENCE AT THE EMBASSY OF 12 REFUGEES CLOSELY LINKED TO FORMER GENERAL MANUEL ANTONIO NORIEGA.</p><p>RESIDENTS OF A NEARBY NEIGHBORHOOD GATHERED IN FRONT OF THE EMBASSY SHOUTING SLOGANS AGAINST THE MILITARY AND CIVILIAN REFUGEES, WHOM THEY SHOUTED SHOULD BE "SHOT," AND AGAINST THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT FOR GRANTING THEM ASYLUM.</p><p>THE DEMONSTRATORS, WHO BROKE THE WINDSHIELDS OF SOME VEHICLES PASSING IN FRONT OF THE EMBASSY, WERE FORCED AWAY FROM THE FRONT OF THE EMBASSY BY MEMBERS OF THE PANAMANIAN PUBLIC FORCE AND U.S. SOLDIERS.</p><p>THE PANAMANIANS WHO SOUGHT SHELTER AT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY ARE MAJOR EDGARDO LOPEZ GRIMALDO, SPOKESMEN OF THE FORMER DEFENSE FORCES; MAJOR GONZALO GONZALEZ, CHIEF OF THE ELITE "MACHO DE MONTE" COMPANY; NORIEGA'S FORMER SECRETARY, MARCELA TASON; CAPTAIN NARCISA CASTILLERO; MAJOR HERACLIDES SUCRE; AND SEVEN RELATIVES OF THE ABOVE-MENTIONED PEOPLE.</p><p>SUCRE WAS CHARGED TODAY BY PANAMANIAN ATTORNEY GENERAL ROGELIO CRUZ WITH BEING INVOLVED IN THE ASSASSINATION OF MAJOR MOISES GIROLDI, WHO PROMOTED A FOILED COUP AGAINST NORIEGA ON 3 OCTOBER 1989.</p><p>PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA TODAY EXPRESSED HIS WILLINGNESS TO PROTECT "AS LONG AS NECESSARY" THE FORMER NORIEGA AIDES WHO SOUGHT SHELTER AT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY IN PANAMA.</p><p>PERU ANNOUNCED ON 9 JANUARY THAT IT HAS GRANTED ASYLUM TO FIVE PANAMANIAN MILITARY AND SEVEN OF THEIR RELATIVES. THE PANAMANIAN GOVERNMENT SAID ON 12 JANUARY THAT IT WILL NOT GRANT SAFE-CONDUCT FOR THESE PEOPLE, WHOM IT CONSIDERS "COMMON CRIMINALS," TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE U.S. GOVERNMENT ON 11 JANUARY SAID THE PANAMANIAN PUBLIC FORCE IS IN CHARGE OF GUARDING THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY AND POINTED OUT THAT THE SOLUTION TO THE CRISIS POSED BY THE PRESENCE OF THE REFUGEES SHOULD BE HANDLED BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF PANAMA AND PERU.</p><p>THE PERUVIAN PRESIDENT SAID TODAY THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF PANAMANIAN PRESIDENT GUILLERMO ENDARA IS "UNLAWFUL." HE ADDED THAT PANAMA IS BEING RULED BY "THE STATE DEPARTMENT, THE PENTAGON, THE SOUTHERN COMMAND, AND THE U.S. TROOPS."</p></body></html>