<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0849"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0849"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0849</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0849 (PRC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 22 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION, ATTENTION, SALVADORAN PEOPLE; ATTENTION, ATTENTION, SALVADORAN PEOPLE: THE NATIONAL INFORMATION CENTER, CIN, REPORTS THAT THE TERRORIST DELINQUENTS ARE SPREADING FALSE RUMORS THAT YOU SHOULD LEAVE YOUR HOUSE BECAUSE THAT IS A MEASURE ADOPTED BY THE ARMED FORCES -- WITH THE INTENTION OF EXERTING PSYCHOLOGICAL PRESSURE ON THE POPULATION.</p><p>HOWEVER, THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ARE OFFICIALLY NOTIFIED THAT THOSE ARE FALSE RUMORS BEING SPREAD BY THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT]. THE ARMED FORCES ARE HERE TO PROTECT THE CITIZENRY, AND NO ONE HAS BEEN ASKED TO LEAVE HIS PLACE OF RESIDENCE.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE, YOUR COURAGEOUS AND HEROIC ARMED FORCES ARE HERE TO CONTINUE DEFENDING YOU FROM THAT COWARDLY AND SAVAGE FMLN AGGRESSION. CITIZEN, DO NOT LEAVE YOUR HOUSE, BECAUSE THE FMLN CAN TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS AND USE YOU AS A SHIELD TO CARRY OUT MORE CRIMES AGAINST YOU.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE, YOUR TRUST IN THE ARMED FORCES ENCOURAGES US TO CONTINUE DEFENDING YOU FROM THOSE FMLN DELINQUENTS. SALVADORANS, DO NOT LEAVE YOUR HOUSE BECAUSE IT COULD BE LOOTED BY THE FMLN HORDES. DO NOT HEED THE FALSE RUMORS BRING SPREAD BY THE TERRORISTS.</p><p>THE CIN KEEPS YOU INFORMED ON WHAT IS REALLY TAKING PLACE. THE FMLN RESORTS TO LIES WHEN ITS PLANS ARE COUNTERED BY OUR GLORIOUS ARMED FORCES' PROFESSIONALISM AND REJECTED BY YOU, COURAGEOUS SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>LONG LIVE THE ARMED FORCES! LONG LIVE THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE! LONG LIVE THE REPUBLIC!</p></body></html>