<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0818"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0818"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0818</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0818 (PRC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 19 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] THE FOLLOWING IS AN UPDATED REPORT OF THE MILITARY SITUATION.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES INFORM THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE THAT THE AREAS IN SAN SALVADOR WHERE ARMY TROOPS ARE CURRENTLY CONDUCTING COUNTERINSURGENCY OPERATIONS ARE THE GUADALUPE AND LOS SANTOS NEIGHBORHOODS OF THE SOYOPANGO MUNICIPALITY, AND SAN SEBASTIAN [WORD INDISTINCT] AT CIUDAD DELGADO. THE ARMED FORCES EXPECT TO EXPEL THE REMAINING SMALL REBEL REDOUBTS FROM THESE AREAS IN THE NEXT FEW HOURS. THERE WERE HARRASSMENT ACTIONS IN APOPA THIS MORNING, BUT NO CASUALTIES WERE REPORTED. THE ARMY CONTROLS THE MEJICANOS AND ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOODS.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES CONTROL THE SITUATION IN THE WESTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY. THE SITUATION IN THE EASTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY IS ALSO UNDER CONTROL, EXCEPT FOR A FEW TERRORIST GROUPS CURRENTLY BEING EXPELLED FROM THE CITY OF SAN MIGUEL.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES JOINT COMMAND STAFF REPORTS THAT 840 TERRORISTS HAVE BEEN KILLED AND 558 HAVE BEEN WOUNDED AS OF TODAY. THE ARMY HAS SUFFERED THE LOSS OF 220 SOLDIERS, WHO HEROICALLY OFFERED THEIR LIVES TO DEFEND THE FATHERLAND FROM COMMUNISM. ALSO, 457 SOLDIERS HAVE BEEN WOUNDED.</p><p>THE FOLLOWING WAR MATERIEL HAS BEEN CONFICATED: 446 RIFLES OF DIFFERENT CALIBERS, 87 GRENADE LAUNCHERS, [WORDS INDISTINCT], 22 MACHINEGUNS, 18 SUBMACHINEGUNS, AND A LARGE AMOUNT OF AMMUNITION AND OTHER WAR MATERIEL.</p></body></html>