<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1169"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1169"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1169</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1169 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 16 MAR 90 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, FMLN] [TEXT] THE GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] DEEMS AS POSITIVE THE GOVERNMENT'S RECOGNITION OF THE FMLN'S GOOD-WILL GESTURES. HOWEVER, WE VIEW AS A NEGATIVE THAT IN THE GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE THERE IS NOT A CORRESPONDING ATTITUDE. IN THIS REGARD, WE INFORM:</p><p>1. THE GOVERNMENT RESPONSE TRIES TO UNDERMINE OUR GESTURE. THE FMLN HAS NEVER HAD A POLICY TO ATTACK OR HARM THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. OUR GESTURES ARE A CLEAR CONTRIBUTION TO STRENGTHENING THE SPACE OF OTHER POLITICAL AND SOCIAL FORCES TO ALLOW FOR THEIR PARTICIPATION IN THE POLITICAL NEGOTIATION SOLUTION PROCESS AND IN THE EFFORT TO HUMANIZE THE CONFLICT.</p><p>2. THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES CONTINUE TO VIOLATE HUMAN RIGHTS, BOMB CIVILIAN POPULATED AREAS, SUBJECT THE COUNTRY TO A PERMANENT STATE OF SIEGE, BE IT LEGAL OR DE FACTO. IN A CONSTANT AND SYSTEMATIC MANNER, THE GOVERNMENT MAINTAINS A POLICY OF CAPTURING AND TORTURING LEADERS OF PEOPLE'S GROUPS; MAINTAINS SIEGES AND RAIDS; HARASSES THE COMMUNITIES OF REPATRIATES; AND SABOTAGES THE PROPERTY OF RESIDENTS IN AREAS UNDER THE FMLN CONTROL.</p><p>IN THE MEANTIME, NO STEP HAS BEEN TAKEN TO INVESTIGATE AND PUNISH THE MURDER OF MONSIGNOR ROMERO AND THE MASSACRE OF FENASTRAS [SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION], WHILE THE TRIAL AGAINST THE MURDERERS OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS HAS STAGNATED AND THE SUSPECTS ARE PROMOTED OR SENT ABROAD.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT INTENDS TO APPOINT AS DEFENSE MINISTER THE PERSON WHO GAVE THE ORDER TO MURDER THE PRIESTS, AND IT ALLOWS THE REPORTED EXECUTIONER TO LIVE IN A LUXURY APARTMENT.</p><p>3. WE AGREE WITH THE PERMANENT, SERIOUS, IMPORTANT, AND RESERVED CHARACTER THAT THE NEGOTIATION PROCESS SHOULD HAVE.</p><p>4. THE GOVERNMENT IS MORALLY AND POLITICALLY COMPELLED TO IMPLEMENT AS SOON AS POSSIBLE GOODWILL GESTURES THAT WILL PERMIT THE EXERCISE OF CITIZEN'S FREEDOMS AND CEASE THE DAILY HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS AND ALL FORMS OF AGGRESSION AIMED AT THE CIVILIAN POPULATION.</p><p>5. WE WARN THAT IT WOULD BE REGRETTABLE FOR THE PEOPLE'S PEACE AND DEMOCRACY HOPES THAT THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES TRY TO HARDEN WARMONGERING POSITIONS, BELIEVING IN THE MIRAGE OF AN ALLEGED WEAKNESS OF THE FMLN. OBVIOUSLY, THIS MISTAKE WOULD ONLY LEAD TO A WORSENING OF THE WAR AND WOULD FURTHER DELAY THE POSSIBILITIES OF NEGOTIATIONS, DEMOCRATIZATION, AND PEACE FOR EL SALVADOR.</p><p>FMLN GENERAL COMMAND</p><p>[SIGNED] COMMANDER SHAFIK JORGE HANDAL, COMMANDER EDUARDO SANCHO, COMMANDER SALVADOR SANCHEZ CEREN, COMMANDER FRANCISCO JOVEL, COMMANDER JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS</p><p>[ISSUED IN] EL SALVADOR, 15 MARCH 1990</p></body></html>