<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0336"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0336"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0336</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0336 (BBN)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 9 AUG 89 -- [SPEECH] [CRISTIANI] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] I DO NOT SEEK, NOR WILL I SEEK, THE LAURELS OF VICTORY. I DO NOT SEEK HUMILIATING DEFEATS FOR ANYONE. WHAT I SEEK IS PEACE. I SEEK REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY IN OUR HOMELAND. I SEEK TO SOLVE THE SOCIAL PROBLEMS OF OUR PEOPLE BY DEVELOPING AN ECONOMY THAT WILL BENEFIT ALL SALVADORANS.</p><p>TO THE LEADERS OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES, A VITAL COMPONENT OF REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY AND OUR NATION'S IDEOLOGICAL PLURALISM, WE WISH TO INVITE YOU TO JOIN US SO THAT TOGETHER WE CAN WORK FOR PEACE IN EL SALVADOR. LET US SET THE PARTY BANNERS ASIDE AND PICK UP OUR NATIONAL FLAG.</p><p>TO THE FMLN LEADERS, I REITERATE MY DETERMINATION AND POLITICAL RESOLVE TO WORK FOR PEACE. I AM TRULY INTERESTED IN PUTTING AN END TO THE BLOODY FRATRICIDAL STRUGGLE. I HOPE THE FMLN WILL HEAR THE CALL MADE BY THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS AND CONTRIBUTE TO STRENGTHEN THE NATIONAL RECONCILIATION AND DEMOCRATIZATION PROCESSES AS ESTABLISHED IN THE ESQUIPULAS II AGREEMENTS. I ALSO HOPE THAT THE FMLN WILL SET ASIDE ITS INTRANSIGENT ATTITUDE AND VOLUNTARILY AGREE TO CEASE ALL HOSTILITIES AND THAT IT WILL DEMONSTRATE ITS PEACEFUL INTENTIONS BY STOPPING ALL TERRORIST ACTIONS AGAINST THE PEOPLE. I HOPE THE FMLN WILL MEET WITH US TO BEGIN THIS PROCESS OF PERMANENT AND FIRM DIALOGUE, WHICH WE ARE WILLING TO BEGIN IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE AGREEMENTS ADOPTED WITHIN THE CONTEXT OF ESQUIPULAS II AT THE RECENT PRESIDENTIAL SUMMIT. THIS DIALOGUE SHOULD BE HELD WITHOUT CONDITIONS AND WITHOUT ANY PROPAGANDA.</p><p>TO THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WHO FOR YEARS HAVE BEEN SUFFERING THE HARD AND SAD CONSEQUENCES OF A WAR AND WHO ARE ANXIOUSLY AWAITING THE ACHIEVEMENT OF PEACE, I ASSURE YOU THAT MY GOVERNMENT IS DETERMINED TO WORK FOR PEACE BY SETTING ASIDE ALL POLITICAL, PERSONAL, OR PARTISAN INTERESTS. I WANT ALL SALVADORANS TO CONTRIBUTE TO ACHIEVING A CIVILIZED END TO THE CONFLICT, AND I WOULD LIKE TO SEE ALL ATTITUDES THAT HINDER THE ACHIEVEMENT OF PEACE SET ASIDE. PEACE MUST NOT BE AN INSTRUMENT FOR AN IDEOLOGICAL OR PARTISAN STRUGGLE. LET US SWITCH THE ROLES. LET US BE THE INSTRUMENTS FOR ACHIEVING PEACE. THE SELFISH ATTITUDE THAT HAS HURT THE HOMELAND DEEPLY MUST BE SET ASIDE, AND WE MUST PLACE THE SACRED INTERESTS OF OUR BELOVED EL SALVADOR ABOVE ALL ELSE.</p><p>PEACE CAN ONLY BE ACHIEVED WITH THE HELP OF EVERYONE. WE MUST UNDERSTAND THAT ACHIEVING PEACE WILL BE THE BIGGEST VICTORY OF THE PEOPLE, AND THIS DOES NOT MEAN IDEOLOGICAL SURRENDER. WE ALL HAVE OPPORTUNITIES WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF OUR CONSTITUTION. THE CONSTITUTION GUARANTEES US IDEOLOGICAL PLURALISM AND REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY.</p><p>SALVADORAN BROTHERS, LET US PRAY THAT GOD WILL OVERSEE THIS EFFORT FOR PEACE. MAY THE SAVIOR OF THE WORLD GUIDE AND ENLIGHTEN US. THANK YOU AND MAY GOD BLESS YOU.</p></body></html>