<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0409"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0409"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-31"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="RIO DE JANEIRO (BRAZIL)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0409</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0409 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>RIO DE JANEIRO (BRAZIL), 31 AUG 89 (O GLOBO) -- [TEXT] TABATINGA (AMAZONAS STATE) -- IN TABATINGA, 1,700 KM FROM MANAUS, POLICE, WITH THE SUPPORT OF THE BRAZILIAN ARMY AND THE SOUTHERN UNIFIED COMMAND (EAST OF COLOMBIA, YESTERDAY BEGAN AN OFFENSIVE AGAINST THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS OF THE MEDELLIN AND CALI CARTELS. ROMEU TUMA, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF THE FEDERAL POLICE DEPARTMENT, PLANNED THE POLICE ACTION IN A MEETING WITH GENERAL AUGUSTO RODRIGUES ARANGO OF THE SOUTHERN UNIFIED COMMAND AND COLONEL LUIS FERNANDO GUZMAN VASQUEZ OF ARMY HEADQUARTERS IN LETICIA, COLOMBIA.</p><p>TUMA SAID THAT THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS LEFT MEDELLIN AND CALI IN SMALL AIRPLANES, PROBABLY WITH FALSE DOCUMENTS, TO GO TO MANAUS, WHERE THEY WOULD PREPARE TO LEAVE FOR EUROPE AND THE UNITED STATES. ALL THE HOTELS OF MANAUS ARE UNDER STRICT SURVEILLANCE.</p><p>THE FIRST ATTEMPTS BY THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS TO ENTER BRAZIL WERE DISCOVERED WHEN THE POLICE FOUND THREE IMPORTED CARS. THE CARS, WHICH ARE LUXURY MODELS MADE IN THE UNITED STATES AND JAPAN, ARE INCLUDED IN A LIST OF 26 CARS SENT TO THE FEDERAL POLICE BY THE COLOMBIAN JUSTICE MINISTRY. THE CARS WERE LEFT BY AN UNIDENTIFIED COLOMBIAN AT A CAR WASH IN TABATINGA. AS THE CARS WERE NOT PICKED UP BY THEIR OWNERS FOR SEVERAL DAYS, THE OWNER OF THE CAR WASH REMOVED THE CARS'S TIRES AND CALLED THE FEDERAL POLICE, WHO TOOK THE CARS TO POLICE FACILITIES YESTERDAY.</p><p>TUMA BELIEVES THAT THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS WERE PLANNING TO STAY IN BRAZIL AFTER THE MURDER OF SEVERAL COLOMBIAN OFFICIALS, BUT IN THE FACE OF THE OFFENSIVE MOUNTED BY PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO, THEY DECIDED TO MOVE ON.</p><p>TUMA ALREADY HAS THE WARRANT FOR THE ARREST OF 12 MEMBERS OF THE MEDELLIN AND CALI CARTELS FROM THE COLOMBIAN JUSTICE MINISTRY. GENERAL RODRIGUES ARANGO SAID THAT THE BRAZILIAN BORDER WITH COLOMBIA IS WELL GUARDED BY BRAZILIAN ARMY TROOPS.</p></body></html>