<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0515"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0515"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="QUITO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0515</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0515 (UMASS)</p><p>QUITO, 14 SEP 89 (EL COMERCIO) -- [TEXT] THE ECUADORAN POLICE DEALT A HARSH BLOW TO DRUG TRAFFICKING WHEN IT CAPTURED JUAN HERNANDO GONZALEZ AND GERMAN BELANDRIA, TWO DRUG TRAFFICKERS WHO WORKED FOR THE COLOMBIAN CARTELS.</p><p>ACTING GOVERNMENT MINISTER LUIS FELIX LOPEZ SAID THE TWO COLOMBIANS WERE ARRESTED IN TAISHA, IN THE CENTRAL EASTERN REGION, WHEN THEIR AIRPLANE VIOLATED ECUADOR'S AIR SPACE.</p><p>THE AIRPLANE, A LUXURY CESSNA 210 TWIN-MOTOR AIRCRAFT WITH A COLOMBIAN REGISTRATION, WAS FORCED TO LAND BY THE ECUADORAN ARMED FORCES.</p><p>ACCORDING TO ECUADOR RADIO, THE AIRCRAFT MADE AN EMERGENCY LANDING IN THE AREA OF BUFFO IN PASTAZA PROVINCE. THE RADIO ADDED THAT THE AIRPLANE, NAMED CENTURION, IS WHITE AND HAS THE REGISTRATION NUMBER H-K-27-29.</p><p>ONCE THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS WERE ARRESTED THEY WERE BROUGHT TO QUITO AND DEPORTED TO COLOMBIA, WHERE THEY WILL BE TRIED.</p><p>ACTING MINISTER LOPEZ SAID THAT THE EVENT OCCURRED IN TAISHA AT 1000 ON 14 SEPTEMBER. THE AIRCRAFT, WHICH WAS FLYING OVER ECUADORAN TERRITORY TOWARD AN UNKNOWN DESTINATION, IS NOW IN CUSTODY OF THE ECUADORAN ARMED FORCES AT THE TAISHA AIRPORT.</p><p>THE TWO TRAFFICKERS HAD $336,000 IN THEIR POSSESSION.</p><p>LOPEZ SAID THAT THE ECUADORAN GOVERNMENT IS WILLING TO STOP THE INFILTRATION OF FOREIGNERS, PARTICULARLY THOSE INVOLVED IN DRUG TRAFFICKING ACTIVITIES.</p><p>THE ARREST OF THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS WAS COORDINATED BY THE MINISTRY OF DEFENSE AND THE POLICE.</p><p>GONZALEZ AND BELANDRIA ARE PRESUMABLY LINKED WITH DRUG TRAFFICKING ACTIVITIES, GIVEN THE LARGE AMOUNT OF MONEY THEY CARRIED AND THE FACT THAT THEY WERE CLANDESTINELY FLYING OVER ECUADORAN TERRITORY.</p><p>IT IS PRESUMED THAT THE AIRCRAFT WAS COVERING THE CALI-PUERTO ASIS-LETICIA (COLOMBIA) ROUTE.</p></body></html>