<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1066"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1066"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1066</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1066 (TRW)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 24 JAN 90 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHIEF OF THE ARMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF, TODAY DISCLOSED AN ALLEGED PLAN ACCORDING TO WHICH THE GUERRILLAS WILL ATTEMPT TO ATTACK MILITARY POSITIONS IN SAN SALVADOR "TO PRESSURE THE GOVERNMENT INTO NEGOTIATING A POLITICAL SOLUTION" TO THE ARMED CONFLICT.</p><p>CITING MILITARY INTELLIGENCE REPORTS, PONCE ANTICIPATED THAT "AS OF NEXT WEEKEND, UNTIL 10 FEBRUARY, THE GUERRILLAS WILL CARRY OUT TERRORIST ACTIONS AND ATTACKS ON MILITARY UNITS, PRIMARILY IN THE METROPOLITAN AREA, IN ORDER TO INFLUENCE THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY IN A PROPAGANDISTIC MANNER."</p><p>"THEY ARE TRYING TO INFLUENCE THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY SO THAT IT, IN TURN, WILL MOVE TOWARD NEGOTIATING A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE ARMED CONFLICT," PONCE SAID DURING A NEWS CONFERENCE AT THE GENERAL STAFF'S HEADQUARTERS.</p><p>THE EXECUTION OF THE ALLEGED FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) PLAN WILL COINCIDE WITH SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S SCHEDULED TRIP TO THE UNITED NATIONS AT THE END OF THE MONTH.</p><p>CRISTIANI WILL MEET ON 31 JANUARY WITH UN SECRETARY GENERAL JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR, TO REQUEST HIS GOOD OFFICES IN FAVOR OF RESUMING THE DIALOGUE WITH THE GUERRILLAS, WHICH WAS SUSPENDED IN OCTOBER.</p><p>FOLLOWING NOVEMBER'S GUERRILLA OFFENSIVE, THE GOVERNMENT AND FMLN HAVE EXPRESSED A WILLINGNESS TO RESUME THE DIALOGUE, WITH UNITED NATIONS PARTICIPATION.</p><p>PONCE POINTED OUT THAT THE "SPECIFIC AREAS" THE GUERRILLAS WILL ATTEMPT TO ATTACK ARE SOME OF THE MILITARY POSITIONS AT THE EL ESPINO FARM IN THE NORTHWESTERN PART OF SAN SALVADOR, AYUTUXTEPEQUE IN THE NORTHERN PART OF THE COUNTRY, ZARAGOZA AND HUIZUCAR IN THE SOUTHERN PART OF SAN SALVADOR, AND SOYAPANGO IN THE EAST.</p><p>THESE AREAS ARE AMONG THE LEADING SITES OF THE BLOODIEST CLASHES BETWEEN SOLDIERS AND GUERRILLAS DURING THE REBELS' HARSHEST OFFENSIVE 11 NOVEMBER.</p><p>THE DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND REBELS WAS SUSPENDED IN OCTOBER FOLLOWING A DYNAMITE ATTACK AGAINST A LABOR UNION HEADQUARTERS IN WHICH 10 WORKERS WERE KILLED AND 30 OTHERS WOUNDED.</p><p>PRIOR TO THE SUSPENSION OF THE DIALOGUE, THE GOVERNMENT AND FMLN HELD TWO ROUNDS OF TALKS IN MEXICO AND COSTA RICA, BUT FAILED TO REACH AGREEMENTS THAT WOULD HAVE ENDED THE COUNTRY'S ARMED CONFLICT.</p></body></html>