<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0990"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0990"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0990</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0990 (SRI)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 14 DEC 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] AFTER AN EXHAUSTIVE INVESTIGATION, THE SALVADORAN ARCHBISHOPRIC LEGAL ASSISTANCE OFFICE ISSUES THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT REGARDING THE MASSACRE OF THE SIX JESUIT PRIESTS:</p><p>THE OPERATION CARRIED OUT TO MURDER THE SIX JESUIT PRIESTS AND THE TWO MAIDS LASTED LONGER THAN 1 HOUR. DURING ALL THAT TIME, THE PERPETRARORS FIRED THEIR WEAPONS AND DETONATED EXPLOSIVES. THIS WAS PROVED BY THE FINDING OF MANY SHELL CASINGS NEAR THE JESUITS' RESIDENCE. THE WITNESS' STATEMENTS ALSO CONFIRMED THAT THE WEAPONS WERE FIRED OVER A LONG PERIOD OF TIME. THE NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS WHO COMMITTED THE CRIME WAS LARGE. THEY WERE WEARING ARMY UNIFORMS. THE WITNESS SAW APPROXIMATELY FIVE INDIVIDUALS WEARING ARMY UNIFORMS. THE WITNESS SAW THE MEN. SHE ALSO HEARD THE SHOOTING, THE CLOSING OF DOORS, AND THE BREAKING OF GLASS IN VARIOUS PARTS OF THE FACILITIES. THE WITNESS SAID THAT FIVE INDIVIDUALS ENTERED THE SERVANTS' ENTRANCE OF THE JESUITS' RESIDENCE. OTHER INDIVIDUALS ENTERED THE RESIDENCE BY THE DOOR LOCATED IN THE NORTHWESTERN END OF THE BUILDING, WHICH IS THE AREA WHERE THE PRIESTS HAVE THEIR ROOMS. ANOTHER GROUP ENTERED THE JESUIT CENTER, SEARCHED IT, AND BURNED IT WITH SOPHISTICATED WEAPONS SUCH AS FLAMETHROWERS.</p><p>3. [NO NUMBERS 1 AND 2 AS HEARD] THE SALVADORAN MILITARY INTELLIGENCE, THE PERPETRATORS, KNEW THE JESUIT CENTER AND THE JESUIT RESIDENCE. IN OTHER WORDS, THEY KNEW THE UCA [CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY] FACILITIES. ON MONDAY, 13 NOVEMBER, INDIVIDUALS WEARING ARMY UNIFORMS SPECIFICALLY SEARCHED THE JESUIT CENTER AND RESIDENCE.</p><p>4. THE SCENE OF THE CRIME IS LOCATED INSIDE AN ARMY CONTROL AND SECURITY AREA SINCE THE ARMED FORCES JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF IS LOCATED IN THAT SAME GENERAL AREA. THE ARMY MAINTAINS PERMANENT MILITARY SURVEILLANCE POSTS AT THE DEMOCRACIA BUILDING, THE MANUEL JOSE ARCE MILITARY NEIGHBORHOOD, THE NORTHERN UCA ENTRANCE, AT THE VARIOUS UCA SCHOOLS, AND AT LA CEIBA DE GUADALUPE AND JARDINES DE GUADALUPE NEIGHBORHOODS. ALL THOSE AREAS ARE WELL GUARDED BY SOLDIERS.</p><p>5. DESPITE THE EVIDENT AND VERIFIABLE MILITARIZATION OF THE AREA WHERE THE CRIME TOOK PLACE, THE CURFEW, THE EXTENDED AND HEAVY FIRING INSIDE THE UCA PREMISES, THE DETONATION OF EXPLOSIVES FOR AN EXTENDED PERIOD OF TIME DURING WHICH THE PERPETRATORS REMAINED INSIDE THE JESUIT FACILITIES -- WHICH GAVE THE PERPETRATORS TIME TO SEARCH THE JESUIT PRIESTS' ROOMS, KILL THEM ALONG WITH THE OTHER TWO VICTIMS, AND SEARCH AND BURN THE JESUIT CENTER CHURCH, THUS PROVING THE SIZE OF THE OPERATION -- THE ARMED FORCES DID NOT REACT AS THEY WOULD HAVE IF THIS OPERATION HAD BEEN CARRIED OUT BY THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT]. THIS INDICATES THAT THE SOLDIERS IN CHARGE OF SECURITY IN THE MANUEL JOSE ARCE MILITARY NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE ARMED FORCES JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF INSTALLATIONS WERE AWARE OF THE OPERATION THAT WAS BEING CARRIED OUT.</p><p>THEREFORE, THE ARCHBISHOPRIC'S LEGAL ASSISTANCE OFFICE CONCLUDES THAT ALL THE EVIDENCE INDICATES THAT MILITARY PERSONNEL OF THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MURDER OF THE SIX JESUIT PRIESTS AND THE TWO MAIDS.</p></body></html>