<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0876"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0876"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0876</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0876 (GTE)</p><p>LIMA, 24 NOV 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] A 2-MONTH-OLD LABOR CONFLICT INVOLVING [WORDS INDISTINCT] WORKERS, WHICH IN THE PAST FEW DAYS HAS CAUSED STREET VIOLENCE IN LIMA, HAS BECOME ONE OF THE MAIN SOURCES OF CONCERN FOR THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT.</p><p>THE STRIKE, WHICH WAS DECREED BY THE INTERSECTORIAL CONFEDERATION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES (CITE), IS BEING OBSERVED BY 300,000 PUBLIC SERVANTS, WHO MAKE UP 50 PERCENT OF CITE MEMBERS. THE STRIKERS DEMAND SALARY IMPROVEMENTS, THE REINSTATEMENT OF 250 DISMISSED WORKERS, AND THE OFFICIAL RECOGNITION OF THE CITE.</p><p>RULING AMERICAN POPULAR REVOLUTIONARY ALLIANCE (APRA) SECRETARY GENERAL LUIZ ALVA CASTRO, WHO IS ALSO THE APRA PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE, REPORTED THAT TODAY HE MET WITH PRIME MINISTER GUILLERMO LARCO COX IN SEARCH FOR A SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEM.</p><p>ALVA SAID THAT "THERE IS GOOD WILL" TO FIND A SOLUTION TO THE CONFLICT, WHICH HAS AFFECTED LARGE SECTORS OF THE POPULATION, WHO MAKE USE OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, JUSTICE, TRANSPORTATION, AND COMMUNICATION SERVICES. THE STRIKE HAS ALSO AFFECTED THE STATE, WHICH HAS FAILED TO COLLECT 70 PERCENT OF TAXES BECAUSE OF THE STRIKE BY THE TAX COLLECTORS.</p><p>ALVA CASTRO SAID THAT THE PRIME MINISTER TOLD HIM THAT THERE WILL BE NO PROBLEM IN RECOGNIZING THE CITE, PROVIDED THAT THIS ORGANIZATION MEETS THE APPROPRIATE LEGAL REQUIREMENTS.</p><p>THERE WERE INCIDENTS IN LIMA ON 23 NOVEMBER, WHEN GROUPS OF CITE MEMBERS DEMONSTRATED IN DOWNTOWN LIMA AND WERE REPRESSED BY THE POLICE. DURING THE INCIDENTS, BOMBS WERE DETONATED, TIRES WERE BURNED, AND THE POLICE SHOT IN THE AIR. AT LEAST [9] PERSONS DIED DURING THE INCIDENTS LAST WEEK.</p><p>A UNION SOURCE TODAY SAID THAT A 15-DAY STRIKE BY 3,500 WORKERS OF THE STATE-RUN MINERO PERU COMPANY HAS CAUSED DAILY LOSSES OF $800,000.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE LABOR MINISTRY, THE STRIKES HAVE COST THE PRIVATE SECTOR 13 MILLION HOURS OF LABOR,</p><p>IT HAS BEEN REPORTED THAT THE MINING SECTOR LOST $80 MILLION DURING 18 DAYS OF STRIKE IN AUGUST AND SEPTEMBER, WHILE THE FISHING SECTOR HAS LOST $150 MILLION BECAUSE OF A STRIKE THAT THE WORKERS OF THE SECTOR BEGAN 55 DAYS AGO.</p></body></html>