<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1149"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1149"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="PANAMA CITY (PANAMA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1149</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1149 (UNISYS)</p><p>PANAMA CITY (PANAMA), 3 MAR 90 (CIRCUITO RPC TELEVISION) -- [REPORT] [JULIO MILLER, DIRECTOR OF RPC NEWS DEPARTMENT] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [BEGIN RECORDING] [ARIAS] THE PRESIDENT AND MYSELF VIGOROUSLY DEPLORE WHAT TRANSPIRED THIS AFTERNOON AT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY. I HAD THE OPPORTUNITY ALONG WITH THE PRESIDENT TO TALK TO MRS. GIROLDI, AND SHE ASSURED US THAT HER ONLY INTENTION WAS TO STAGE A PEACEFUL PROTEST AND AT NO TIME DID THEY PLAN TO INCLUDE ANY VIOLENT ACTS. MRS. GIROLDI SAID THAT SHE IS VERY SURPRISED THAT SOME PEOPLE WHOM SHE DOES NOT KNOW AND HAS NEVER SEEN BEFORE PROMOTED VIOLENT ACTS. SHE TOLD THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC THAT SHE WILL TALK TO THE PEOPLE AND TELL THEM THAT THERE SHOULD BE NO VIOLENCE AND THAT VIOLENCE IS NOT THE AIM.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT AND I APPRECIATE WHAT SHE IS DOING; WE UNDERSTAND HER PAIN. WE EXPLAINED TO HER THAT THE PRESIDENT HAS NOT AUTHORIZED ANY SAFE-CONDUCTS FOR INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE BEEN CHARGED WITH MURDER. THOSE CASES ARE BEING TREATED DIFFERENTLY BY THE PRESIDENT AND THE MINISTER OF FOREIGN RELATIONS.</p><p>[REPORTER] IS A BREAK IN RELATIONS EXPECTED BETWEEN PANAMA AND PERU DUE TO THE VIOLENT ACTIONS?</p><p>[ARIAS] NOT AT ALL. I TALKED TO THE PERUVIAN CHARGE D'AFFAIRES AFTER OUR FOREIGN MINISTER TALKED TO HIM. HE KNOWS THAT THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT PROFOUNDLY REGRETS WHAT HAS TRANSPIRED; THAT THE PEOPLE WHO WERE PROTESTING THERE, SUCH AS MRS GIROLDI, HAD NO PLANS TO CARRY OUT VIOLENT ACTIONS. UNIDENTIFIED PEOPLE, WHOSE IDENTITY WE WILL TRY TO DETERMINE, URGED THE THROWING OF FIRE BOMBS AGAINST THE EMBASSY. THE FOREIGN MINISTER AND MYSELF EXPRESSED OUR APOLOGIES TO THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT FOR ANY INCONVENIENCES OR INSECURITY FELT BY ITS PERSONNEL.</p><p>[ENDARA] THESE ARE VERY REGRETFUL INCIDENTS. NOT ONLY A BASIC COURTESY OF CIVILIZED PEOPLE, THAT IS TO RESPECT THE RESIDENCES OF OTHER PEOPLE, AND MORE SO WHEN THEY BELONG TO REPRESENTATIVES OF OTHER COUNTRIES, BUT A PRINCIPLE OF INTERNATIONAL LAW HAS BEEN VIOLATED. THAT PRINCIPLE IS DUE RESPECT FOR DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS.</p><p>WHAT REALLY WORRIES US ABOUT THIS INCIDENT IS A REPORT GIVEN TO US BY THE ORGANIZERS OF DEMONSTRATIONS AT THE EMBASSY. SPECIFICALLY, BY THE WIDOWS OF MEN MURDERED BY THOSE WHO ARE REFUGED IN THAT EMBASSY; THE WIDOW OF MAJOR GIROLDI WAS HERE, AND SHE TOLD US THAT ALL HER ACTIONS AT THE EMBASSY HAVE BEEN PEACEFUL.</p><p>SHE TOLD US THAT TODAY THEY NOTICED THAT TOTALLY UNFAMILIAR PEOPLE WERE PRESENT AND THESE PEOPLE PROVOKED THE VIOLENCE; THEY INSTIGATED THE VIOLENCE. OBVIOUSLY, THERE CERTAIN GROUPS ARE SEEKING TO SPOIL OUR EFFORTS TO ACHIEVE DEMOCRACY. THEY WANT TO PREVENT THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM WITH JUSTICE AND LIBERTY AT ALL COSTS.</p><p>I BELIEVE THAT THIS INCIDENT MUST BE DENOUNCED BEFORE THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE NATION. HE SHOULD INVESTIGATE THESE PROVOCATIONS. NEVERTHELESS, THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH URGES THE CITIZENS TO NOT ALLOW PEOPLE TO PROVOKE THEM INTO PARTICIPATING IN VIOLENT ACTIONS SUCH AS ONE WHICH OCCURRED TODAY. THE CITIZENS MUST NOT ALLOW OTHERS TO EXPLOIT THE FEELINGS THAT ALL PANAMNIANS FEEL TOWARDS CRIMINALS AND PEOPLE WHO HAVE COMMITTED CRIMES AND WHO ARE HOLED UP IN EMBASSIES SUCH AS THIS ONE; WE URGE CITIZENS TO AVOID BEING PROVOKED. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>