<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0007"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0007"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0007</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0007 (NOSC)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 9 JAN 90 -- [COMMENTARY] [OLGA KLIVADENKO] [TEXT] THE DEPLOYMENT OF U.S. SHIPS, INCLUDING THE AIRCRAFT CARRIER "JOHN F. KENNEDY" AND THE CORVETTE "VIRGINIA" ALONG THE COLOMBIAN COAST YESTERDAY, SEEKING TO INTERCEPT DRUG TRAFFICKING ROUTES, COULD BE THE RESULT OF THREE POLICIES:</p><p>FIRST, THAT THE UNITED STATES NEEDS TO JUSTIFY THE INVASION OF PANAMA UNDER THE EXCUSE OF ITS FIGHT AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>SECOND, THAT BOTH THE DEPLOYMENT OF SHIPS AND THE INVASION OF PANAMA ARE PART OF A SERIOUS MILITARY PLAN TO END THE DRUG PLAGUE.</p><p>THIRD, THAT THE UNITED STATES MUST SOMEHOW JUSTIFY THE INVASION OF PANAMA AND THE NEED TO RECOVER ITS INTERNATIONAL IMAGE HAS PROVIDED A REAL OPPORTUNITY TO PUT AN END TO DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>IF THE OBJECTIVE REALLY IS TO ELIMINATE DRUGS, THEN THE BATTLE IS PRAISEWORTHY, BUT--LIKE IN PANAMA--THE PROCEDURE IS PAINFUL, OVERBEARING, IMPERIALISTIC, AND HUMILIATING. INSTEAD OF WINNING THE LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES' APPRECIATION AND SOLIDARITY WITH THIS LAUDABLE CAUSE, THE UNITED STATES IS AGAIN PROVOKING ANGRY REACTIONS AND DEEP DISTRUST. THE SIDE EFFECTS OF THIS ACTION COULD BE VERY NEGATIVE FOR THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING, IN WHICH ALL THE COUNTRIES OF THIS CONTINENT SHOULD BE COOPERATING. ALTERNATIVELY, WOULD IT BE BETTER IF THEY DID NOT COOPERATE IN THIS PHASE?</p><p>COULD IT BE THAT WHAT WE HAVE CALLED IMPERIALISTIC CLUMSINESS, INSENSIBILITY, AND ABUSE, IS SIMPLY A DELIBERATE STRATEGY WITH WHICH, PERHAPS FOR WELL FOUNDED REASONS AND EVEN AT THE RISK OF DIPLOMATIC CONFLICTS, THE UNITED STATES SEEKS TO ISOLATE LATIN AMERICA ON PURPOSE AND THUS ENSURE THE SUCCESS OF ITS OPERATION? IF THIS WERE THE CASE THEN WE MUST ASK, WHY?</p><p>FROM ITS OPERATIONS IN PANAMA AND COLOMBIA, THE UNITED STATES IS TELLING US THAT IT IS NOT CONCERNED WITH THE DIPLOMATIC ASPECT FOR THE TIME BEING. THE UNITED STATES WANTS ACTION AND EFFICIENCY. THE UNITED STATES IS LOSING ITS PATIENCE, AND PERHAPS ITS CONFIDENCE IN THE SERIOUSNESS AND CAPABILITY OF LATIN AMERICA TO FACE THIS WAR.</p><p>IF THE ACTION IN COLOMBIA GOES FURTHER THAN A MERE SURVEILLANCE, THE UNITED STATES WILL BE ESTABLISHING A PRECEDENT IN THIS BATTLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING. THIS MEANS THAT DURING A FIRST PHASE THE UNITED STATES WILL CARRY OUT A MILITARY OPERATION BY ITSELF. DURING A SECOND PHASE IT WILL DISCUSS SECONDARY SUBJECTS BUT WITH LESS URGENCY IN THE WAR AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>NEXT 15 FEBRUARY, BUSH WILL MEET IN CARTAGENA DE INDIAS, COLOMBIA, WITH HIS COLOMBIAN, PERUVIAN, AND BOLIVIAN COUNTERPARTS. PERHAPS ON THAT OCCASION THEY WILL TALK ABOUT THE OTHER ASPECTS OF THIS WAR: THE REORGANIZATION OF THE LOCAL ECONOMIES TO END THE DEPENDENCY ON COCA PLANTATIONS, THE RECOVERY OF DRUG ADDICTS, AND THE CONSOLIDATION OF GOVERNMENTS, ETC.</p><p>DURING THIS CURRENT PHASE, HOWEVER, THE UNITED STATES WISHES TO ACT ALONE. WHO KNOWS IF IT IS BECAUSE OF LATIN AMERICA'S LACK OF UNDERSTANDING? AS WE SAID A FEW DAYS AGO, THE DRUG TRAFFICKING PROBLEM IS CREATING NEW SITUATIONS IN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS. THE U.S. PROPOSAL IS PROBABLY SOMETHING LIKE: COULD A WORLD POWER LIKE THE UNITED STATES CONTINUE TO IGNORE A SERIOUS PROBLEM LIKE THE PRODUCTION, DISTRIBUTION, AND CONSUMPTION OF DRUGS, MERELY TO AVOID HARMING LATIN AMERICAN SENSIBILITIES, SENSIBILITIES OF COUNTRIES WHOSE GOVERNMENTS ARE ALWAYS MUDDLED UP IN USELESS DIPLOMATIC AND BUREAUCRATIC PROCEDURES AND FRUITLESS NEGOTIATIONS? AND ALL THIS WHILE A LARGE PART OF THE DEVELOPED WORLD'S POPULATION IS BECOMING ADDICTED TO A DEADLY PRODUCT?</p><p>THE UNITED STATES COULD ALSO BE ASKING ITSELF: HAVE THE LATIN AMERICAN GOVERNMENTS BEEN ABLE TO SOLVE THIS SERIOUS PROBLEM BY THEMSELVES? CAN THOSE GOVERNMENTS STOP DRUG TRAFFICKING WHEN IT IS KNOWN THAT DRUGS AND CORRUPTION GO HAND IN HAND; WHEN IN THE PAST AND PERHAPS IN THE PRESENT, HIGH RANKING GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS HAVE BEEN LINKED WITH THIS ILLEGAL TRADE AND PROTECTING THE MEDELLIN CARTEL CHIEFS? WHY, FOR EXAMPLE, AFTER ALL THIS HASN'T THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT MANAGED TO EXTRADITE THE MAIN CHIEFS OF THAT CARTEL TO THE UNITED STATES?</p><p>LET US RECALL THE HORRIBLE EXPLOSION OF THE COLOMBIAN AIRLINER, IN WHICH MORE THAN 100 PEOPLE DIED; THE BOMB EXPLOSION IN THE SECRET POLICE HEADQUARTERS IN BOGOTA; THE MURDER OF MANY JOURNALISTS WHO WERE ENGAGED IN AN HEROIC WAR AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING; AND MAINLY, LET US RECALL THE EVER-PRESENT DIFFICULTIES THAT MUST BE FACED WHEN THE MEDELLIN CARTEL CHIEFS MUST BE PUNISHED AND EXTRADITED.</p></body></html>