<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1096"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1096"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1096</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1096 (UNISYS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 7 FEB 90 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] COL. RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHIEF OF THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF, SAID TODAY THAT 145 GUERRILLAS AND 53 SOLDIERS HAD BEEN KILLED IN 386 CLASHES IN JANUARY WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE COUNTERINSURGENCY OPERATION "VICTORIA."</p><p>COL. PONCE SAID THAT THE ARMY HAD DESTROYED 61 CAMPS AND THWARTED 48 LOGISTICAL GUERRILLA OPERATIONS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY IN JANUARY, WHILE THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] SAID IT HAD INFLICTED 532 ARMY CASUALTIES, INCLUDING 10 OFFICERS, IN ARMED CONFRONTATIONS DURING THE MONTH.</p><p>COL. PONCE HELD THE GUERRILLA MOVEMENT RESPONSIBLE FOR THE "MURDER" OF 19 PEOPLE AND ADDED THAT 22 REBELS HAD DESERTED FROM THE FMLN RANKS. HE STATED THAT THE REBELS HAD CONDUCTED 235 SABOTAGE OPERATIONS AGAINST THE TELEPHONE, ENERGY, AND TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS, AS WELL AS THE GOVERNMENT INFRASTRUCTURE AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.</p><p>OPERATION "VICTORIA," WHICH BEGAN IN JANUARY, WAS AIMED AT ATTACKING THE GUERRILLA GROUPS THAT STAYED BEHIND IN THE OUTSKIRTS OF SAN SALVADOR AND THE COUNTRY'S MAIN CITIES AFTER THE REBEL OFFENSIVE OF 11 NOVEMBER 1989.</p><p>PONCE SAID THAT 45 PERCENT OF THE SALVADORAN ARMY (APPROXIMATELY 30,000 SOLDIERS) IS PARTICIPATING IN THE NATIONWIDE OPERATION "VICTORIA."</p><p>THE ARMY CONFISCATED 186 WEAPONS OF VARIOUS CALIBERS DURING THE CONFRONTATIONS IN JANUARY.</p><p>PONCE ADDED THAT 1,980 PEOPLE, MOST OF THEM YOUTHS, HAVE BEEN KIDNAPPED BY THE REBELS SINCE 11 NOVEMBER AND ARE RECEIVING GUERRILLA TRAINING IN CHALATENANGO, MORAZAN, AND USULUTAN DEPARTMENTS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL SOURCES, IN THE LAST DECADE THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLA MOVEMENT HAS CAUSED ECONOMIC LOSSES TO THE COUNTRY OF APPROXIMATELY $430 MILLION AS A RESULT OF TELECOMMUNICATION AND ENERGY SABOTAGE OPERATIONS.</p></body></html>