<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0899"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0899"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0899</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0899 (GTE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 29 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [EXCERPTS] WE HAVE AN ACAN-EFE REPORT ON THE SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR. THE REPORT READS: THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS TODAY UNLEASHED A NEW OFFENSIVE IN SAN SALVADOR WITH ATTACKS ON MILITARY INSTALLATIONS AND FIERCE CLASHES WITH THE ARMY IN SEVERAL NEIGHBORHOODS IN SAN SALVADOR, WHICH CONTINUE UP UNTIL MID-MORNING ON 29 NOVEMBER. THE ACAN-EFE REPORT ADDS: THE GUERRILLAS' ACTIONS AFFECTED ESCALON, SAN FRANCISCO, AND SAN BENITO NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE THE RESIDENCES OF PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI AND U.S. AMBASSADOR WILLIAM WALKER ARE LOCATED.</p><p>A LOCAL TELEVISION STATION REPORTED THERE WERE SHOOTOUTS EARLY THIS MORNING ON LA CAPILLA STREET IN SAN BENITO NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE THE RESIDENCE OF U.S. AMBASSADOR WILLIAM WALKER IS LOCATED. THE FMLN AND THE ARMY ARE ALSO FIGHTING IN MEJICANOS AND CIUDAD DELGADO IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR. THE FMLN IS MAINTAINING POSITIONS ON THE HIGHWAY LINKING SAN SALVADOR TO THE WESTERN SECTOR OF THE COUNTRY. THE FMLN REPORTED THIS MORNING THAT ITS TROOPS AMBUSHED PATROLS FROM THE ARMED FORCES ELITE BATTALIONS. WITNESSES CONFIRMED TO ACAN-EFE THAT THE FMLN TOOK POSITIONS IN ANTIGUO CUSCATLAN, A TOWN SOUTHEAST OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>THIS HAS BEEN AN ACAN-EFE REPORT ON THE SITUATION IN SAN SALVADOR.</p></body></html>