<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0393"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0393"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0393</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0393 (BBN)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 28 AUG 89 -- [TEXT] IN VIEW OF THE RECENT INCIDENTS AT TOBALABA AIRPORT, THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHILE [PCCH] HAS ISSUED THE FOLLOWING COMMUNIQUE:</p><p>THE DICTATORSHIP INTENDS TO USE STILL UNCLEAR INCIDENTS THAT TOOK PLACE A FEW DAYS AGO AT TOBALABA AIRPORT TO CREATE A CLIMATE OF PROVOCATION AND ALARM WITH THE PURPOSE OF DISRUPTING THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE POLITICAL PROCESS THAT SHOULD LEAD TO A DEMOCRATIC VICTORY ON 14 DECEMBER.</p><p>PINOCHET'S OPEN INTERVENTION IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ELECTORAL PROCESS REMAINED CLEAR IN HIS 23 AUGUST SPEECH AND WAS RECENTLY DENOUNCED BY OPPOSITION LEADER PATRICIO AYLWIN AND BY ALL OPPOSITION POLITICAL FORCES.</p><p>THE DECLARATION ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER, CNI -- AN ORGANIZATION THAT FOR MANY YEARS HAS SHAMEFULLY VIOLATED THE MOST BASIC RIGHTS OF THE CHILEAN PEOPLE BY USING THE MOST CRUEL AND INHUMAN FORMS OF TERROR AND VIOLENCE AGAINST CHILEAN DEMOCRATS AND WHOSE DISSOLUTION HAS BEEN PROPOSED EVEN BY THE GOVERNMENT'S CANDIDATE HERNAN BUCHI -- INTENDS TO MISGUIDE THE PEOPLE BY ONCE AGAIN TRYING TO IMPLICATE THE PCCH IN AN INCIDENT IN WHICH IT HAD NO PARTICIPATION WHATSOEVER.</p><p>THE CNI DECLARATION, EXPRESSLY ORDERED BY AUTHORITIES OF THE REGIME, GOES TO THE EXTREME OF INFAMOUSLY MANIPULATING FAMILY TIES TO ATTACK OUR GENERAL SECRETARY, COMRADE VOLODIA TEITELBOIM.</p><p>THE REGIME SEEKS TO CREATE A CLIMATE OF TERROR AND INTIMIDATION IN ORDER TO IMPOSE THE ANTIDEMOCRATIC DEMANDS RECENTLY MADE BY PINOCHET.</p><p>TO THIS END, AND AS PINOCHET HIMSELF HAS STATED, THE REGIME IS WILLING EVEN TO RESORT TO FORCE ONCE AGAIN. PART OF THIS PLAN IS THE MURDER OF LUIS VARGAS, WHO WAS ARRESTED AND TORTURED BY THE CNI AND LATER THROWN OUT OF A FIFTH- FLOOR WINDOW OF THE MILITARY COURT BUILDING AFTER BEING FALSELY CHARGED WITH HAVING AN ARSENAL IN HIS HOME; THE SCANDALOUS COURT DECISION THAT LEAVES UNPUNISHED THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE INHUMAN DEATH OF RODRIGO ROJAS DENEGRI AND THE SERIOUS INJURY OF CARMEN GLORIA QUINTANA; THE SHAMEFUL SUPREME COURT DECISION CLEARING THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE HORRIBLE CRIMES AGAINST 10 CHILEANS IN LATE 1976; THE REGIME'S INTENTION TO IMPOSE A NEW AMNESTY LAW TO LEAVE THOUSANDS OF CASES OF VIOLATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE PAST 16 YEARS UNPUNISHED; THE ARREST AND INCOMMUNICADO DETENTION OF 13 PEOPLE, AMONG THEM A PREGNANT WOMAN ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED IN THE INCIDENTS AT THE TOBALABA AIRPORT AND FOR WHOSE PHYSICAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL INTEGRITY WE FEAR.</p><p>THIS IS THE CONSEQUENCE OF PINOCHET, THE CNI, AND THE CIRCLES CLOSE TO THE DICTATORSHIP'S DESPAIR IN VIEW OF THE PROGRESS MADE BY THE DEMOCRATIC STRUGGLE AND THE GROWING UNITY OF ALL OPOSITION FORCES AROUND A SINGLE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE AND A COMMON PLATFORM DESIGNED TO DEMOCRATIZE THE COUNTRY.</p><p>AS ALWAYS WHEN IT FEELS THREATENED, THE DICTATORSHIP HAS DECIDED TO DIVIDE AND CONFUSE THE OPPOSITION FORCES.</p><p>WE APPEAL TO ALL DEMOCRATS TO COME TOGETHER EVEN MORE FIRMLY SO THE LEVEL OF UNITY ACHIEVED BY THE OPPOSITION SECTOR WILL NOT ALLOW SUCH MANEUVERS TO JEOPARDIZE THE RESOLUTE PROGRESS TOWARD THE MUCH DESIRED DEMOCRACY AND FREEDOM FOR OUR PEOPLE.</p><p>WE ALSO URGE THAT THIS PROVOCATION BE DENOUNCED BY DOUBLING EFFORTS TO OVERWHELMINGLY DEFEAT THE DICTATORSHIP ON 14 DECEMBER, THUS TAKING A DECISIVE STEP IN THE STRUGGLE TO DEFINITIVELY OUST THIS REGIME OF HATRED, DEATH, AND PAIN.</p><p>SIGNED: AMERICO ZORRILLA, JAIME INSUNZA, AND CARLOS MOLINAS FOR THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHILE.</p></body></html>