<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0937"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0937"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0937</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0937 (SRI)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 5 DEC 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] ADMIRAL JOSE TORIBIO MERINO CASTRO TODAY STATED THAT THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT JUNTA HAS DECIDED TO MEET TWICE A WEEK, TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS, IN ORDER TO EXPEDITE THE HANDLING OF DRAFT LAWS CURRENTLY UNDER CONSIDERATION. ASKED ABOUT THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN CHILE, MERINO SAID THAT EVERYTHING IS CALM.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MERINO] THE POLITICAL SITUATION IS CALM, EXCEPT FOR THE LEFTISTS, THAT IS, NOT THE LEFTISTS IN GENERAL BUT THOSE WHO LIKE THROWING BOMBS AND KILLING PEOPLE. THEY ARE THE ONES THAT ARE MARRING AN EXTRAORDINARILY PERFECT DEMOCRATIC PROCESS. THIS SITUATION IS UNIQUE IN THE WORLD, BECAUSE I BELIEVE THAT ALL THOSE WHO CAN VOTE HAVE BEEN REGISTERED, AT LEAST 99 PERCENT OF THEM. [END RECORDING]</p><p>ADM MERINO ADDED THAT THE PREVAILING CALM MUST CONTINUE UNDER THE NEXT ADMINISTRATION.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MERINO] THE PEACEFUL ATMOSPHERE MUST CONTINUE IF WE ARE TO LIVE IN A DEMOCRACY RESPECTFUL OF THE PEOPLE AND THEIR RIGHTS. WHAT I MEAN IS THAT AS LONG AS THERE IS RESPECT, THERE WILL BE TRANQUILLITY. [END RECORDING]</p><p>ADM MERINO STATED THAT THE NEW CENTRAL BANK EXECUTIVE BOARD WILL ENSURE GREATER STABILITY, ESPECIALLY IN THE EXCHANGE RATE FOR FOREIGN CURRENCIES. ASKED ABOUT FIDEL CASTRO'S RECENT OFFER TO MEDIATE BETWEEN CHILE AND BOLIVIA, MERINO SAID THAT THE CUBAN DICTATOR HAS NO BUSINESS MEDDLING IN CHILE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MERINO] [WORDS INDISTICT] FIDEL CASTRO. THIS SCARECROW WOULD DO BETTER TO KEEP HIS MOUTH SHUT BECAUSE HE HAS NO BUSINESS MEDDLING IN CHILE. [WORDS INDISTINCT] A CLEAR IDEA OF PERESTROYKA AND THE OTHER LESSONS THAT GORBACHEV IS TEACHING [WORDS INDISTINCT]. HE IS PROBABLY THINKING THAT BOLIVIA IS ABOUT TO FALL INTO THE HANDS OF THE COMMUNISTS BECAUSE THOSE IN THE GOVERNMENT THERE ARE LEANING TO THE LEFT, AND THAT CHILE WILL FOLLOW SUIT. SO HE FIGURES THAT HE, AS A LEFTIST, WILL HAVE THE CHANCE TO MEDDLE IN CHILEAN AFFAIRS. NOT SO. NOBODY EXCEPT WE CHILEANS WILL HANDLE OUR AFFAIRS.</p><p>THE BEST THING THIS CASTRO CAN DO IS STAY HOME. HE ALREADY VISITED CHILE; I MET HIM AND SO DID OTHERS. HE SPENT A WHOLE NIGHT TALKING TO [NAME INDISTINCT] IN PUNTA ARENAS WHEN I MET HIM. SO HE HAS NOTHING TO DO HERE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>ADM MERINO CONCLUDED BY SAYING THAT ON THE DAY OF THE ELECTION HE WILL STAY IN HIS OFFICE, JUST IN CASE.</p></body></html>