<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1283"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1283"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1283</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1283 (BOEING)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 15 MAY 90 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] AT LEAST SIX [AS HEARD] BOMBS EXPLODED IN VARIOUS PLACES IN THE CAPITAL DURING THE NIGHT. ONE INDIVIDUAL WAS INJURED. THE DAMAGES WERE DIFFERENT IN EACH CASE.</p><p>ONE OF THE MOST SERIOUS INCIDENTS OCCURRED IN THE AREA OF THE U.S. CONSULATE, IN FRONT OF FORESTAL PARK AND THE PURISIMA BRIDGE. HERE, UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUALS THREW A BOMB ONTO THE DIPLOMATIC PREMISES, INJURING A GUARD NAMED BARROSO, WHO WAS TAKEN TO THE CENTRAL HOSPITAL.</p><p>THE SERIES OF BOMBINGS BEGAN WHEN AN UNKNOWN NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS THREW A BOMB INTO THE DEFENSE MINISTRY'S PARKING LOT, LOCATED OFF AN ALLEY BETWEEN ALAMEDA AND ALONSO VALLE STREETS. TWO CARS WERE DAMAGED BUT NO ONE WAS INJURED. OTHER BOMBS EXPLODED ON BANDERA AND ALAMEDA STREETS, AND NEAR AN AUSTRALIAN INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT FIRM ON TARAPACA AND SANTA ROSA STREETS. ANOTHER BOMB EXPLODED ON THAT CORNER A FEW WEEKS AGO.</p><p>THE OTHER BOMBS DAMAGED AN ISRAELI COMMUNITY OFFICE AT SERRANO AND TARAPACA STREETS, A FRUIT EXPORTING FIRM AT ELIODORO YANEZ AND GENERAL SALVO STREETS IN PROVIDENCIA, AND A MORMON CHURCH AT PEDRO DE VALDIVIA AND OCURO STREETS.</p></body></html>