<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0517"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0517"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0517</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0517 (UMASS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 23 SEP 89 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [REPORT] [MAURICIO FUNES] [TEXT] SALVADORAN VICE PRESIDENT FRANCISCO MERINO STATED TODAY THAT THE MILITARY ASPECTS OF THE AGREEMENTS THAT THE GOVERNMENT MAY REDUCTIONS. ACCORDING TO THE VICE PRESIDENT, AN EFFECTIVE CEASEFIRE AGREEMENT WITH THE FMLN MUST ALSO INCLUDE THE CONTROL OF VIOLENT ACTIONS BY MASS ORGANIZATIONS IN EL SALVADOR. MERINO MADE REFERENCE TO THE DOUBTS THAT CERTAIN MILITARY COMMAND SECTORS HAVE ABOUT THE FMLN'S PROPOSAL. HE SAID THAT THESE DOUBTS ARE PRESENT, MAINLY BECAUSE THE REBELS HAVE NOT KEPT THEIR PUBLIC PROMISES CONCERNING MILITARY ACTIONS IN THE PAST. HOWEVER, THE OFFICIAL COMMENTED THAT, IN THE LONG RUN, A CEASEFIRE AGREEMENT WOULD LEAD TO NEGOTIATIONS ON IMPORTANT ISSUES, SUCH AS MILITARY TROOP REDUCTIONS, THAT MUST BE ACCEPTED BY THE ARMED FORCES. LET US HEAR VICE PRESIDENT MERINO:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MERINO] WE CANNOT IGNORE THAT THE FMLN AND EVEN THE PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT HAVE MADE PROMISES THAT THEY NEVER KEPT. THE ARMED FORCES ARE A PERMANENT INSTITUTION AND THEY HAVE PREVIOUSLY SUFFERED THE NONCOMPLIANCE OF AGREEMENTS THAT HAD BEEN MADE BY THE PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT WITH THE FMLN. NOW, THE LACK OF TRUST MUST BE OVERCOME WITH SPECIFIC ACTIONS IN THE FUTURE. HERE, WE HAVE SOMETHING THAT MUST BE CLEARLY APPRECIATED. THE GOVERNMENT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DIALOGUE PROCESS. THE ARMED FORCES ARE PART OF THE GOVERNMENT; THEY ARE AN INSTITUTION. PRESIDENT CRISTIANI IS THE GENERAL COMMANDER OF THE ARMED FORCES. THUS, THE ARMED FORCES' POSITION IS ALSO INCLUDED IN PRESIDENT CRISTIANI'S STATEMENTS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>ACCORDING TO MERINO, COMMENTARIES THAT HAVE BEEN MADE BY SEVERAL MILITARY COMMANDERS ARE TO BE UNDERSTOOD AS COMMENTARIES OUTSIDE ANY AGREEMENT THAT THE GOVERNMENT MAY REACH WITH THE REBELS. ON THE SAME SUBJECT, THE VICE PRESIDENT ALSO COMMENTED THAT IT IS NECESSARY FOR THE GUERRILLAS TO CHANGE THEIR MILITARY BEHAVIOR, AS THEY HAVE TO SHOW THAT THEY REALLY WANT TO START A PROGRESSIVE WAR DE-ESCALATION PROCESS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MERINO] THE EFFECTIVENESS AND TOTALITY WITH WHICH THE FMLN STOPS HOSTILITIES; CEASES ITS ACTS OF SABOTAGE AGAINST ELECTRICITY, COMMUNICATIONS, AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES; AND STOPS THE USE OF MINES WILL DETERMINE THE LEVEL OF THE SALVADORAN ARMY'S OFFENSIVE ACTIONS. THIS IS LOGICAL, AS WHEN THERE IS NO AGGRESSION, THERE CAN BE NO ACTION TO COUNTER IT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>MERINO SAID THAT THE GOVERNMENT PROPOSAL INCLUDES AN AGREEMENT FOR THE FMLN TO DRASTICALLY DECREASE STREET VIOLENCE IN EL SALVADOR, SUCH AS THE VIOLENCE PROMOTED BY MASS ORGANIZATIONS RECENTLY.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MERINO] HOSTILITIES ARE NOT ONLY THOSE ACTIONS THAT INCLUDE THE USE OF MILTARY FORCE, SUCH AS MINES, BOMBS, AND SO ON. THEY ALSO INCLUDE FMLN MASS ORGANIZATION ACTIONS THAT ARE CARRIED OUT MAINLY IN SAN SALVADOR AND ARE CREATING A CERTAIN DEGREE OF DESTABILIZATION. IT IS A KIND OF URBAN TERRORISM, AS THESE GROUPS ARE DISTORTING THE RIGHT TO PROTEST OR THE RIGHT OF EXPRESSION. THESE ORGANIZATIONS ARE NO LONGER ONLY CARRYING A MESSAGE, BUT HAVE STARTED TO DESTROY AND DAMAGE PRIVATE PROPERTY AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION, AND THREATEN THE CITIZENS' INTEGRITY. THUS, YOU SEE HERE A DIRECT RELATIONSHIP WHICH DEMANDS THAT THE FMLN MILITARY ACTIONS AND CEASEFIRE MUST INCLUDE URBAN ACTIONS, AS WELL. A CEASEFIRE MUST ALSO INCLUDE THAT THE FMLN WILL NOT CARRY OUT OFFENSIVE ACTIONS OR ACTIONS BY FACADE GROUPS IN THE CITIES THAT PROMOTE STREET DISORDER. [END RECORDING]</p><p>DURING PRESIDENT CRISTIANI'S 15-DAY-ABSENCE, MERINO REPORTED THAT HE WILL WORK ON THE PROPOSAL THAT THE GOVERNMENT WILL PRESENT TO THE FMLN IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA ON 16 OCTOBER, WITH AN ADVISORY COMMISSION FORMED BY MILITARY OFFICERS, PRIVATE BUSINESSMEN, INTELLECTUALS, AND POLITICAL PARTY LEADERS.</p></body></html>