<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0806"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0806"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0806</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0806 (PRC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 18 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] THE ARMED FORCES OF EL SALVADOR HEREBY REPORT TO THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE THE MILITARY SITUATION THROUGHOUT THE NATIONAL TERRITORY.</p><p>METROPOLITAN AREA: IN THE CAPITAL CITY, ARMY TROOPS CONTROL THE AREAS OF CUSCATANCINGO AND MEJICANOS, PARTICULARLY THE ZACAMIL, REGALADO, AND EL SOL NEIGHBORHOODS, WHERE THE ARMY IS CONSTANTLY PATROLLING THE AREA TO PREVENT NEW SUBVERSIVE ATTACKS. IN CIUDAD DELGADO, ARMED FORCES PERSONNEL ARE FIGHTING SMALL GROUPS OF EXTREMISTS WHO HAVE HIDDEN IN SEVERAL HOMES IN LOMAS DEL RIO AND SAN SEBASTIAN NEIGHBORHOODS, WHERE THERE ARE STILL SOME TERRORISTS WHO WILL BE EXPELLED IN A FEW HOURS.</p><p>LIKEWISE, ARMY TROOPS ARE CONDUCTING COUNTERINSURGENCY OPERATIONS IN GUADADALUPE, SUYAPA, AND LOS SANTOS NEIGHBORHOODS, SOYAPANGO MUNICIPALITY, WHERE THERE WAS SOME FIGHTING YESTERDAY AND THIS MORNING. THE NUMBER OF CASUALTIES INFLICTED ON THE ENEMY IS NOT AVAILABLE YET. THE ARMY IS CONTROLLING THE SITUATION IN THE AMATEPEC AND CIUDAD CREDISA NEIGHBORHOODS AND IN SANTA MARTA NO 2, WHERE THERE STILL IS A SLIGHT PROBLEM. AT NOON TODAY TROOPS FOUGHT THE TERRORISTS IN THE NORTHERN PART OF MEJICANOS, BUT THERE ARE NO REPORTS ON CASUALTIES YET. THE REBELS ARE FLEEING THE SANTA MARTA NEIGHBORHOOD AND OTHER NEARBY AREAS.</p><p>WESTERN ZONE: THE 2D INFANTRY BRIGADE, TOGETHER WITH MILITARY DETACHMENTS NO 6 AND NO 7, CONTROL THE WESTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY. THIS INCLUDES SANTA ANA, SONSONATE, AND AHUACHAPAN DEPARTMENTS WHERE THERE IS NO MAJOR PROBLEM. THERE HAVE BEEN SOME CLASHES AND ENCOUNTERS, BUT THESE HAVE BEEN UNIMPORTANT AND WITHOUT ANY SERIOUS CONSEQUENCES FOR THE CIVILIAN AND MILITARY POPULATION.</p><p>EASTERN ZONE: THE 3D INFANTRY BRIGADE, HEADQUARTERED IN SAN MIGUEL CITY, REPORTED THIS MORNING THAT THEIR TROOPS WERE FIGHTING SMALL REBEL GROUPS IN FRANCISCO GAVIRIA, 15 SEPTEMBER, EL MOLINO, AND LOPEZ NEIGHBORHOODS. BRIGADE OFFICERS SAID THEY EXPECT TO HAVE FULL CONTROL IN A FEW HOURS. THEY ALSO SAID THAT AT LEAST 15 REBELS WERE BURIED IN COMMON GRAVES ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF SAN MIGUEL CITY, WHERE THEY WERE ABANDONED BY THEIR COMRADES WHO YESTERDAY AFTERNOON BEGAN TO FLEE AS A RESULT OF THE ARMY'S CONSTANT ACTIONS IN THAT AREA OF THE COUNTRY. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>