<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1170"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1170"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1170</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1170 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 16 MAR 90 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [REPORT] [SORAYA CAICEDO] [TEXT] PICHINCHA BATTALION TROOPS HAVE SEIZED LETTERS, WHICH WERE GOING TO BE USED FOR EXTORTION, AND LARGE AMOUNTS OF WAR MATERIEL IN CLASHES WITH THE 6TH FARC FRONT IN THE BORDER AREA OF THE DEPARTMENTS OF VALLE DEL CAUCA AND CAUCA. IN THE OPERATIONS THAT TOOK PLACE ON 15 MARCH IN THE JAGUAL AREA IN CORINTO MUNICIPALITY, IN NORTHERN CAUCA, 3RD BRIGADE TROOPS KILLED ALONSO CORTES, CONSIDERED THE FARC'S MOST IMPORTANT LEADER IN THE SOUTHWESTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY. TWO OTHER GUERRILLAS WERE ALSO KILLED.</p><p>IN THAT AREA THE PICHINCHA BATTALION TROOPS FOUND A COCAINE PROCESSING LABORATORY AND 35 PACKAGES OF MARIJUANA.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [GENERAL JOSE MANUEL BONNET] WE DEMONSTRATED THAT THE FARC IS INVOLVED IN DRUG TRAFFICKING. AS YOU SAW, THE SEIZURE OF 35 PACKAGES OF MARIJUANA AND OF A COCAINE PROCESSING LABORATORY IN CALOTO, IN THIS SAME OPERATION, SHOWS US THAT WE ARE FACING A SUBVERSIVE GROUP THAT IS ALSO INVOLVED IN THE MARIJUANA BUSINESS ACTIVITY. [END RECORDING]</p><p>ON ALONSO CORTES' BODY, THE TROOPS FOUND A LISTING OF PEOPLE WHO WERE SUBJECTED TO [1-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] NOTING THE AMOUNT OF MONEY THAT THEY WERE SUPPOSED TO GIVE TO THE FARC. THEY ALSO FOUND A LETTER THAT CORTES NEVER SENT FOR A [7-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] FOR HAVING IMPLICATED THE M-19 [19 APRIL MOVEMENT]. IN THIS MILITARY OPERATION CALLED "LILIANA," THE ARMY SEIZED SHOTGUNS, PISTOLS, ONE SUB-MACHINE GUN, AND LARGE AMOUNTS OF AMMUNITION, IN ADDITION TO DYNAMITE AND CABLES FOR EXPLOSIVES, COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT, DENTAL EQUIPMENT, AND CLOTHING FOR THE EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE MILITARY FORCES.</p></body></html>