<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0667"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0667"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0667</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0667 (GE)</p><p>BOGOTA, 11 NOV 89 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] PEREIRA -- THREE PERSONS WERE INJURED AND HEAVY MATERIAL DAMAGE WAS REPORTED DURING A NEW TERRORIST WAVE THAT HIT PEREIRA LAST NIGHT. THREE BOMBS EXPLODED AT THE FRONT DOORS OF A POLITICAL PARTY HEADQUARTERS AND TWO BANKS. THE ALMOST SIMULTANEOUS BLASTS WERE HEARD AT APPROXIMATELY MIDNIGHT. THE RESIDENTS IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA WERE SHAKEN BY THE EXPLOSIONS. INJURED BY THE SHOCK WAVE WERE: AN UNIDENTIFIED TAXI DRIVER; ELMER MACHADO, A YOUNG BEGGAR WHO WAS SLEEPING ON THE SIDEWALK NEAR ONE OF THE BANKS; AND RAUL CASTANO GUTIERREZ, A BAKER WHO WAS PASSING BY. THE INJURED PERSONS WERE TAKEN TO THE SOCIAL SECURITY'S SAN JORGE HOSPITAL AND THE PIO XII CLINIC, AND IT WAS REPORTED THAT THEY ARE OUT OF DANGER.</p><p>GLASS WAS BROKEN AND OFFICE FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT DESTROYED AT THE LIBERAL UNITY HEADQUARTERS, A GROUP THAT FOLLOWS THE GUIDELINES OF PRESIDENTIAL HOPEFUL CESAR GAVIRIA TRUJILLO; AT THE LAS VILLAS SAVINGS AND LOANS OFFICE; AND AT THE INTERNATIONAL BANK OF COLOMBIA BRANCH. THE PEREIRA SECURITY COUNCIL, PRESIDED OVER BY MUNICIPAL SECRETARY BERNARDO GIL JARAMILLO, IS CURRENTLY HOLDING AN URGENT MEETING. SECRETARY GIL JARAMILLO SAID THAT THE MOST DRASTIC AND EFFECTIVE MEASURES WILL BE ADOPTED TO BRING THE SITUATION UNDER CONTROL, TO FIND THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR LAST NIGHT'S ATTACKS, AND TO PREVENT FURTHER INCIDENTS.</p><p>THE ATTACK ON THE LIBERAL UNITY HEADQUARTERS OCCURRED A FEW HOURS AFTER THE DIRECTORATE CALLED A MEETING WITH CIVIC, UNION, CULTURAL, SPORTS, AND RELIGIOUS GROUPS TO CHOOSE THEIR CANDIDATE FOR MAYOR. THE CANDIDATE WILL RUN ON THE ALVARISTA CONSERVATIVE MOVEMENT TICKET HEADED BY SENATOR EMILIANO ISAZA ENAO.</p><p>THIS IS THE SECOND ATTACK IN 2 MONTHS. ON 6 SEPTEMBER THREE BOMBS EXPLODED -- THREE OTHERS WERE DEFUSED -- RESULTING IN 60 MILLION PESOS IN DAMAGE AND 17 PERSONS INJURED. ONE OF THE INJURED LOST A LEG.</p></body></html>