<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0548"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0548"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="AYACUCHO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0548</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0548 (UMASS)</p><p>AYACUCHO, 5 OCT 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] AYACUCHO MILITARY SOURCES TODAY REPORTED THAT 35 PEOPLE DIED IN ATTACKS BY ABOUT 150 SHINING PATH MEMBERS AGAINST 4 TOWNS ON THE BORDER OF AYACUCHO AND HUANCAVELICA DEPARTMENTS.</p><p>THE ATTACKS TOOK PLACE AT DAWN ON 4 OCTOBER IN THE TOWNS OF SANTO TOMAS DE PATA, PULLUHUAMAN, ANTA, AND ROSASPATA. THERE WERE 26 PEASANTS KILLED, AND 9 REBELS DIED AT THE HANDS OF MEMBERS OF THE CIVILIAN MILITIA, WHO RESISTED THE ATTACKS DESPITE THEIR PRIMITIVE WEAPONS.</p><p>THE ZONE WHERE THE TERRORIST ATTACKS TOOK PLACE -- AND IN WHICH 15 PEASANTS WERE ALSO SERIOUSLY WOUNDED -- IS LOCATED 60 KM NORTHWEST OF THIS CITY. THE OTHER TOWNS THAT SUFFERED ATTACKS ARE LOCATED IN SANTO TOMAS DE PATA DISTRICT, HUANCAVELICA DEPARTMENT, AND IN SAN PEDRO DE CACHI DISTRICT, AYACUCHO DEPARTMENT.</p><p>THE MILITARY SOURCES REPORTED THAT IN ANTA AND PULLUHUAMAN THE TERRORISTS SET TWO SCHOOLS AND SEVERAL HOUSES ON FIRE, KILLED CATTLE AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS, AND SEIZED LARGE AMOUNTS OF BASIC GOODS.</p><p>THEY ADDED THAT THE INJURED WERE BROUGHT TO THIS ANDEAN CITY, 575 KM SOUTHEAST OF LIMA AND HUANTA.</p><p>THE 4 OCTOBER ATTACKS ON THESE TOWNS WERE FOLLOWED TODAY BY A SERIES OF EIGHT BOMB ATTACKS. THESE ATTACKS WERE CARRIED OUT IN SEVERAL PARTS OF THE CITY, AND ONE OF THEM WAS AGAINST THE NATIONAL POLICE HEADQUARTERS, WHICH IS LOCATED AT 300 METERS FROM THE MAIN SQUARE.</p><p>THERE WERE GUNSHOTS AND EXPLOSIONS AT THE POLICE HEADQUARTERS, BUT NO VICTIMS WERE REPORTED.</p><p>BOMB ATTACKS WERE ALSO CARRIED OUT AGAINST THE STATE ENERGY COMPANY, LOCATED IN DOWNTOWN AYACUCHO, CAUSING BLACKOUTS IN SEVERAL AREAS. EXPLOSIONS WERE HEARD IN THE CARMEN ALTO, SAN JUAN BAUTISTA, MAGDALENA, CAPILLAPATA, AND CONCHOPATA NEIGHBORHOODS AND AT THE SAN CRISTOBAL DE HUAMANGA UNIVERSITY.</p><p>THESE ATTACKS LAUNCHED BY THE SHINING PATH IN AYACUCHO OVER THE PAST 24 HOURS ARE PART OF THE ESCALATING VIOLENCE THAT HAS AFFECTED SEVERAL PARTS OF THE COUNTRY ONLY 5 DAYS BEFORE THE START OF TWO PRESIDENTIAL "SUMMITS" THAT WILL BE HELD IN ICA DEPARTMENT, LOCATED IN THE SOUTHERN REGION OF PERU.</p><p>THE PRESIDENTS OF BOLIVIA, COLOMBIA, AND PERU ARE SCHEDULED TO MEET TO DISCUSS THE DRUG TRAFFICKING ISSUE ON 10 OCTOBER IN PARACAS. THE "GROUP OF EIGHT" SUMMIT, (COMPRISING ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, COLOMBIA, MEXICO, PERU, URUGUAY, AND VENEZUELA), IS SCHEDULED TO BE HELD 11-12 OCTOBER IN ICA, THE CAPITAL OF THE DEPARTMENT.</p></body></html>