<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1217"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1217"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1217</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1217 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>LIMA, 7 APR 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE "SHINING PATH" TERRORIST ORGANIZATION IS KEEPING THREE PERUVIAN CITIES UNDER PRESSURE WITH THREE "ARMED STRIKES"-- STRIKES ENFORCED BY DEATH THREATS--THAT BEGAN TODAY IN AN EFFORT TO FORCE A BOYCOTT OF TOMORROW'S GENERAL ELECTIONS.</p><p>AYACUCHO, THE CAPITAL OF THE SOUTHERN DEPARTMENT OF AYACUCHO, IS UNDER A STATE OF MILITARY EMERGENCY. THERE IS NEITHER ELECTRICITY NOR WATER IN THE CITY, AND EVERY ACTIVITY HAS BEEN SUSPENDED AS A RESULT OF THE THREE-DAY "ARMED STRIKE" CALLED AS OF TODAY. THERE IS NO TRANSPORTATION EITHER, STORES ARE CLOSED, AND THE STREEETS ARE PATROLLED BY THE ARMY AND THE MILITARY POLICE. ROADS LINKING AYACUCHO WITH THE DEPARTMENTAL PROVINCES OF CANGALLADO AND LA MAR WERE BLOCKED BY SHINING PATH TERRORISTS WITH STONES AND TREE TRUNKS. THE 55-KM ROAD LINKING AYACUCHO WITH THE CITY OF HUANTA IS GUARDED BY 4,000 MEMBERS OF THE "PEASANT PATROLS," WHICH ARE OPPOSED TO THE "SHINING PATH." THERE ARE A FEW VANS ON THE ROAD, UNDER MILITARY SURVEILLANCE. "SHINING PATH" TERRORISTS HAVE DESTROYED A SUSPENSION BRIDGE LINKING AYACUCHO WITH THE PROVINCE OF JULCAMARCA, WHICH WAS THUS FORCED INTO ISOLATION.</p><p>CANDIDATES FOR DEPUTY FROM AYACUCHO DEPARTMENT FOR THE RULING APRA (AMERICAN POPULAR REVOLUTIONARY ALLIANCE), THE VARGAS LLOSA-LED DEMOCRATIC FRONT (FREDEMO), AND THE UNITED LEFT, AS WELL AS FOREIGN AND LOCAL JOURNALISTS WHO WILL COVERING THE ELECTION IN THAT AREA ARE ALL LODGED IN A HOTEL IN AYACUCHO. "SHINING PATH" HAS THREATENED TO BLOW UP THE HOTEL, WHICH IS HEAVILY GUARDED BY THE POLICE.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE PEOPLE OF AYACUCHO ARE CHECKING THE VOTER LISTS TO FIND OUT WHERE EACH VOTER WILL HAVE TO CAST HIS VOTE TOMORROW.</p><p>THE SHINING PATH ALSO CALLED FOR AN "ARMED STRIKE" FROM TODAY UNTIL MONDAY IN HUARAZ, CAPITAL OF THE ANCASH DEPARTMENT, BORDERING LIMA DEPARTMENT TO THE NORTH. THE CITY WAS PARALYZED AND IN THE DARK FOLLOWING THE DESTRUCTION OF A HIGH-TENSION PYLON SIX KM FROM THE CITY. AS THE RESULT OF THAT ATTACK, FIVE PROVINCES OF ANCASH WERE LEFT WITHOUT ELECTRICITY.</p><p>THE SHINING PATH TERRORISTS HURLED EXPLOSIVES AT A MARKET IN HUARAZ, INJURING 15 PEOPLE. THE HUARAZ-LIMA ROAD WAS BLOCKED FOR 15 HOURS WHEN SHINING PATH GUERRILLAS SET TWO TRUCKS LOADED WITH MINERALS ON FIRE. ANCASH DEPARTMENT LIES OUTSIDE THE AREA UNDER THE STATE OF EMERGENCY THAT ENCOMPASSES HALF OF PERU, INCLUDING THE METROPOLITAN LIMA AREA.</p><p>HUANCAYO, 415 KM SOUTHEAST OF LIMA, IS COMPLETELY PARALYZED BY THE "ARMED STRIKE" IMPOSED BY THE SHINING PATH. ALL ACTIVITIES-- BANKS, COMMERCE, MARKETS, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION--HAVE BEEN SUSPENDED. SINCE FRIDAY THERE HAVE BEEN EIGHT BOMBINGS OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE FACILITIES. A CAR WAS DESTROYED BY A BOMB. THE CITY'S ELECTRICITY SUPPLY HAS BEEN CUT, FOLLOWING THE DESTRUCTION OF THREE HIGH-TENSION PYLONS. ALSO AFFECTED WAS THE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY IN THE ENTIRE MANTARO RIVER VALLEY, WHERE THE COUNTRY'S LARGEST HYDROELECTRIC PLANT IS LOCATED. THIS PLANT SUPPLIES 80 PERCENT OF PERU'S ELECTRICITY.</p><p>SINCE LAST YEAR, SHINING PATH TERRORISTS HAVE BEEN EXTENDING THEIR ACTIVITIES FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF AYACUCHO TO THE STRATEGIC DEPARTMENT OF JUNIN, BORDERING THE DEPARTMENT OF LIMA. JUNIN PROVIDES MOST OF LIMA'S FOOD.</p></body></html>