<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0702"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0702"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0702</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0702 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 NOV 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] A GUERRILLA MEMBER DIED ON SATURDAY 11 NOVEMBER WHILE ATTACKING THE RESIDENCE OF LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY VICE PRESIDENT ROBERTO ANGULO, WHO ESCAPED THE ATTACK UNHARMED.</p><p>ACCORDING TO WITNESSES, URBAN GUERRILLA MEMBERS ENTERED THE RIGHT-WING NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA) LEADER'S RESIDENCE WHERE SEVERAL SHOTS WERE FIRED, BUT THERE ARE NO OFFICIAL REPORTS ON THE CASUALTIES.</p><p>THE RESIDENCE IS LOCATED IN CAMPESTRE NEIGHBORHOOD, WHICH IS LOCATED IN NORTHWESTERN SAN SALVADOR, CLOSE TO SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S RESIDENCE AND THE PRESIDENTIAL HOUSE, WHICH WERE ALSO ATTACKED LAST EVENING.</p><p>ARMED FORCES CHIEF OF STAFF COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE CONFIRMED THE ATTACK ON CRISTIANI'S RESIDENCE, BUT THE PRESIDENT ESCAPED UNHARMED AND IS IN A SAFE PLACE.</p><p>ANGULO'S NEIGHBORS SAID THAT THE DEPUTY WAS NOT INJURED BECAUSE HE MANAGED TO ESCAPE TO A NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE, FROM WHERE SEVERAL PEOPLE OPENED FIRE AGAINST THE REBELS.</p><p>ONE OF THE ATTACKING GUERRILLAS DIED IN FRONT OF ANGULO'S RESIDENCE AND HIS BODY WAS FOUND THIS MORNING.</p><p>CONGRESS PRESIDENT RICARDO ALVARENGA VALDIVIESO'S HOUSE WHICH IS LOCATED IN MIRAMONTE NEIGHBORHOOD IN WESTERN SAN SALVADOR WAS ALSO ATTACKED.</p><p>THE REBELS ALSO ATTACKED THE "GENERAL ARCE" NEIGHBORHOOD, A MILITARY HOUSING COMPLEX, AS WELL AS THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE HEADQUARTERS AND THE NATIONAL POLICE HEADQUARTERS IN "ZACAMIL," ONE OF THE MOST DENSELY-POPULATED NEIGHBORHOODS IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR.</p></body></html>