<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0507"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0507"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0507</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0507 (UMASS)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 18 SEP 89 (PRENSA LIBRE) -- [TEXT] ARMY SPOKESMAN COLONEL LUIS ARTURO ISAACS HAS SAID THAT POSSESSION OF WAR MATERIEL DESIGNATED FOR THE EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE MILITARY MAKES LIONEL SISNIEGA OTERO A TERRORIST. HOWEVER, COL ISAAC DID NOT CONFIRM WHETHER SISNIEGA WAS INVOLVED IN THE TERRORIST ATTACK THAT HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN THE PAST FEW WEEKS.</p><p>INVESTIGATIONS HAVE CONFIRMED THAT IT WAS LIONEL SISNIEGA OTERO WH SUPPLIED THE GRENADES TO THOSE WHO ARE NOW UNDER ARREST. ONCE ARRESTED, SISNIEGA WILL HAVE TO EXPLAIN TO THE COURT WHY HE HAD THE WEAPONS, COL ISAACS ADDED.</p><p>COL ISAACS CONFIRMED THAT MILITARY INTELLIGENCE IS INVESTIGATING HOW AND FROM WHERE SISNIEGA OTERO OBTAINED THE WAR MATERIEL.</p><p>THE MILITARY SPOKESMAN SAID THE POSSESSION OF WAR MATERIEL BY CIVILIANS IS PROHIBITED AND PUNISHABLE BY LAW. IN THIS RESPECT, CIVILIAN PROTECTION SYSTEM AUTHORITIES SHOULD DEEPEN THEIR INVESTIGATIONS AND THE COURTS SHOULD BE STRICTER.</p><p>ASKED ABOUT THE SURPRISING AND SUDDEN MANNER IN WHICH CAPTAIN LIONEL SISNIEGA CORDERO, SON OF SISNIEGA OTERO, WAS SENT OUT OF THE COUNTRY, COL ISAACS SAID THAT IT HAD BEEN DONE FOR HIS PERSONAL SAFETY, SINCE ANY EXTREMIST FACTION COULD TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE SITUATION TO TRY TO HARM HIM.</p><p>ISAACS CONFIRMED THAT CAPT SISNIEGA OTERO WAS APPOINTED MILITARY ATTACHE AT THE GUATEMALAN EMBASSY IN VENEZUELA AND THAT FILLING THIS POSITION IS PART OF THE SOLDIER'S DUTY.</p><p>WHEN ASKED WHETHER CAPT SISNIEGA CORDERO COULD HAVE SUPPLIED THE WEAPONS TO HIS FATHER, COL ISAACS REJECTED THE POSSIBILITY, ADDING THAT EVERY OFFICER KNOWS PERFECTLY WELL THAT KEEPING WAR MATERIEL AT HOME IS FORBIDDEN AND IN VIOLATION OF ARMED FORCES DIRECTIVES.</p><p>POSSESSION OF WEAPONS IS A MISDEMEANOR AND NOT A FELONY, COL ISAAC SAID. AS AN EXAMPLE, HE SAID HE HAS A "GALIL" WHICH HE KEEPS AT HIS OFFICE, ALTHOUGH HE CARRIES HIS HANDGUN WHEREVER HE GOES.</p><p>HOWEVER, HE SAID THE POSSIBILITY IS BEING INVESTIGATED, ALTHOUGH H CONSIDERS IT FAR-FETCHED. AS A RULE THE ARMY PROTECTS ITS MEMBERS, AN THIS IS PRECISELY WHY CAPT SISNIEGA CORDERO WAS GIVEN DIPLOMATIC STATUS AND SENT TO VENEZUELA.</p><p>ON ANOTHER SUBJECT, COL ISAACS SAID HE HAD NO KNOWLEDGE OF A GUERRILLA ATTACK ON THE ACATENENGO DETACHMENT, POINTING OUT THAT THE GUATEMALAN NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY UNITY (URNG) MAKES FALSE CLAIMS THAT DO NOT CORRESPOND WITH REALITY.</p><p>THERE HAVE BEEN PERSISTENT RUMORS OF A RECENT SUBVERSIVE GROUP ATTACK ON THE ACATENANGO DETACHMENT DURING WHICH MANY CASUALTIES WERE INFLICTED.</p></body></html>