<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0824"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0824"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0824</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0824 (PRC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] AS WE SAID EARLIER, THERE ARE THREE POSITIONS. THIS PROVES THAT THERE ARE CONTRADICTIONS SURROUNDING THIS CASE. THERE IS WILLIAM WALKER, ACTING LIKE AN OSTRICH WITH HIS HEAD STUCK IN THE GROUND. AND THERE IS CRISTIANI'S POSITION -- THE DEATH SQUAD MEMBER WHO WEARS A TIE, WHO [WORDS INDISTINCT] AFTER THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY [WORDS INDISTINCT], AND WHO SAID THAT RASH JUDGMENT SHOULD NOT BE PASSED AND THAT NO ONE SHOULD BE IN A HURRY TO ACCUSE THE GOVERNMENT OR ANYONE ELSE. AND THERE IS ALSO THE GENERAL STAFF AND DEFENSE MINISTRY POSITION BLAMING THE FMLN. WHY? IF IT IS TRUE THAT THERE IS A CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT IN EL SALVADOR, THEN WHY CAN THE DEFENSE MINISTER APPEAR BEFORE THE TELEVISION CAMERAS CONTRADICTING CRISTIANI, GOING AGAINST WHAT CRISTIANI HAD SAID? WHO GIVES THE ORDERS HERE, LARIOS OR CRISTIANI? IF CRISTIANI GIVES THE ORDERS, THEN THE DEFENSE MINISTER MUST OBEY CRISTIANI AND REFRAIN FROM MAKING ACCUSATIONS BEFORE A SERIOUS INVESTIGATION IS HELD. HOWEVER, THIS IS NOT THE CASE.</p><p>THIS FURTHER PROVES WHAT WE HAVE BEEN SAYING. THE CIVILIAN MASK FELL ON SATURDAY. THE DEFENSE MINISTRY HOLDS THE REAL POWER IN THE COUNTRY. THE DEFENSE MINISTRY CENSORS THE PRESS. THE SOLDIERS ARE THE ONES CENSORING THE TELEVISION STATIONS, AND NOT THE ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] FOLLOWERS OR OTHER CIVILIANS. THE GENERAL STAFF, THE SOLDIERS, ARE GAGGING THE PRESS, IMPOSING THE STATE OF SIEGE, GIVING THE FINAL ORDERS. IT IS IMPORTANT TO LOOK INTO THIS CLOSELY BECAUSE GEN LARIOS, IN AN EMPTY SPEECH -- WE HEARD HIM DELIVER A RHETORICAL AND EMPTY SPEECH -- ACCUSED THE FMLN OF KILLING THE PRIESTS AND SAID THAT THE ARMY CONTROLS THE COUNTRY. WE POINT OUT THESE CONTRADICTIONS [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>BY SAYING THAT THEY DID NOT DO IT, THAT THE ARMED FORCES DID NOT DO IT, THE DEFENSE MINISTER ADMITTED THAT HE DID IT, THAT HE IS ONE OF THE KILLERS. THAT IS WHAT GEN LARIOS IS SAYING, THAT IS WHAT HE SAID IN HIS PUBLIC STATEMENT. [WORDS INDISTINCT] NO DOUBT, AND THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY HAS [WORDS INDISTINCT]. WE DO NOT BELIEVE IN THE GOVERNMENT'S INVESTIGATIONS BECAUSE WE HAVE PAST EXAMPLES OF IT. WE HAVE MONSIGNOR ROMERO'S CASE AND WE HAVE THE CASE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY DEMOCRATIC FRONT LEADERS, WHO, A FEW YEARS AGO, WERE ARRESTED IN BROAD DAYLIGHT DURING A POLICE OPERATION. HOWEVER, NOT A SINGLE SOLDIER HAS BEEN PUNISHED. WE DO NOT BELIEVE IN CRISTIANI'S JUSTICE. THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY IS PUTTING ON THE PRESSURE AND CRISTIANI WILL HAVE TO DO SOMETHING. HE WILL PROBABLY PUT UP SOME ACT. THE U.S. CONGRESS ALSO HAS ITS EYES ON EL SALVADOR. THEY ARE DEBATING THE ISSUE OF AID TO EL SALVADOR. THERE IS SOMETHING ELSE THE U.S. CONGRESS MUST THINK ABOUT. THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE SAID THAT IT IS PLEASED WITH THE WAY CRISTIANI ACTED IN THE FACE OF THE FMLN OFFENSIVE. THIS MEANS THAT THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE HAS APPROVED THE DROPPING OF WHITE PHOSPHORUS OVER ZACAMIL AND THE DESTRUCTION OF 500 HOMES. THIS MEANS THAT THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE HAS APPROVED THE KILLING OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS, AND ALSO THE MASSACRE OF SEVERAL SALVADORAN CITIZENS WHO WERE TAKEN FROM THEIR HOMES AND KILLED ON THE SAME BLACK NIGHT WHEN THE JESUIT PRIESTS WERE KILLED.</p></body></html>