<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1079"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1079"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="AYACUCHO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1079</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1079 (UNISYS)</p><p>AYACUCHO, 28 JAN 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE POLICE HAVE REPORTED THAT TOMAS EVANGELISTA, A LEADER OF THE RULING AMERICAN POPULAR REVOLUTIONARY ALLIANCE (APRA) AND DIRECTOR OF THE AYACUCHO DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, WAS SHOT DEAD BY TERRORISTS HERE TODAY.</p><p>THE POLICE SAID THAT A GROUP OF HOODED INDIVIDUALS EARLY THIS MORNING ENTERED EVANGELISTA'S HOUSE AND, AFTER TYING THE HANDS OF HIS WIFE AND FIVE CHILDREN, TOOK EVANGELISTA OUT OF THE HOUSE AND SHOT HIM AT LEAST 20 TIMES.</p><p>EVANGELISTA, WHO WAS 50 YEARS OLD, HAD HELD THE MOST IMPORTANT REGIONAL APRA POSTS FOR 30 YEARS.</p><p>EVANGELISTA'S WIFE TOLD THE POLICE THAT BEFORE HER HUSBAND WAS KILLED, THE HOODED MAN SHOUTED THEIR SUPPORT FOR THE PRO-MAOIST SHINING PATH TERRORIST GROUP. ANTHROPOLOGIST ABIMAEL GUZMAN, THE FOUNDER OF THE SHINING PATH TERRORIST ORGANIZATION, WAS EVANGELISTA'S PROFESSOR AT THE HUAMANGA UNIVERSITY IN AYACUCHO.</p><p>THE NATIONAL POLICE HAVE ALSO REPORTED THAT ON 26 JANUARY SHINING PATH TERRORISTS MURDERED BROTHERS MARTIZA AND JOHN PAOLO PUZO OCHOA AND THEIR MOTHER MARTA OCHOA IN THE TOWNSHIP OF CAMPINA, 60 KM SOUTH OF AYACUCHO.</p><p>WITNESSES TOLD THE POLICE THAT THE OCHOAS WERE KILLED BECAUSE THEY REFUSED TO SUPPLY FOOD AND LODGING TO THE TERRORISTS.</p><p>MORE THAN 200 PEOPLE HAVE DIED SO FAR THIS MONTH OWING TO THE ARMED STRUGGLE THAT THE SHINING PATH TERRORISTS BEGAN IN 1980 AND THAT HAS ALREADY CLAIMED THE LIVES OF AT LEAST 17,700 PEOPLE AND CAUSED DAMAGE OF OVER $16 BILLION, WHICH IS THE EQUIVALENT TO THE 70 PERCENT OF THE PERUVIAN FOREIGN DEBT.</p></body></html>