<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0763"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0763"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0763</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0763 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 16 NOV 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE FIGHTING BETWEEN THE SALVADORAN ARMY AND THE GUERRILLAS AND THE CONSTANT AIR FORCE BOMBINGS OF POPULATED AREAS CONTINUED FOR THE 6TH CONSECUTIVE DAY TODAY, WHILE THOUSANDS OF CIVILIANS FLED FROM THE MAIN AREAS OF FIGHTING.</p><p>IN SAN SALVADOR, ESPECIALLY IN NORTHWESTERN NEIGHBORHOODS, EFE REPORTERS WERE ABLE TO CONFIRM THE PERSISTENT CLASHES AND CONTINUOUS LAUNCHING OF ROCKETS BY AIR FORCE PUSH AND PULL AIRCRAFT AGAINST THE REBEL POSITIONS IN DENSELY POPULATED AREAS.</p><p>AT LEAST TWO BLOCKS OF HOMES IN LOW-INCOME ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD HAVE BEEN ABLAZE SINCE MID-MORNING AS A RESULT OF THE REBEL OFFENSIVE LAUNCHED ON SATURDAY, WHICH HAS LEFT MORE THAN 600 DEAD AND 1,000 WOUNDED.</p><p>THE NEIGHBORHOODS OF ZACAMIL, MEJICANOS, AYUTUXTEPEQUE, AND CUSCATANCINGO ARE THE PRINCIPAL AREAS OF FIGHTING IN THE SALVADORAN CAPITAL WHERE, ACCORDING TO ARMY SOURCES, THE MILITARY HAVE "LAID SIEGE TO THE REBELS AND WILL EVICT THEM IN A FEW HOURS."</p><p>THE SALVADORAN ARMY, SUPPORTED BY AIRCRAFT AND ARTILLERY, ARE ATTACKING THESE NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE APPROXIMATELY 300,000 PERSONS LIVE AND WHERE THE GUERRILLAS HAVE TAKEN UP POSITIONS.</p><p>FOR THEIR PART, SPOKESMEN FOR THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN), ENTRENCHED IN BUILDINGS AND BEHIND BARRICADES IN DENSELY POPULATED NEIGHBORHOODS CLAIM THAT THEY "WILL NOT RETREAT" AND THAT "THEY HAVE CONSOLIDATED THEIR POSITIONS IN THE CAPITAL AND OTHER CITIES OF THE COUNTRY."</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE FMLN, FIGHTING IS UNDER WAY IN AT LEAST 7 OF THE 24 DEPARTMENTS OF EL SALVADOR, WHILE THE FIERCEST CLASHES ARE TAKING PLACE IN USULUTAN, LA PAZ, SAN MIGUEL, AND MORAZAN IN THE EASTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>INDEPENDENT CIVILIAN SOURCES REPORTED THAT IN THE COUNTRY'S EASTERN DEPARTMENT OF SAN MIGUEL THE GUERRILLAS HAVE OCCUPIED POSITIONS IN VARIOUS NEIGHBORHOODS, WHICH ARE UNDER HEAVY AIR AND ARTILLERY FIRE.</p><p>HOWEVER, THE ARMY AND THE GOVERNMENT CLAIM THAT THE SITUATION IS UNDER CONTROL THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY, AND THAT "THERE ARE GUERRILLA REDOUBTS" IN SAN SALVADOR ONLY.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THOUSANDS OF RESIDENTS IN NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE CLASHES ARE TAKING PLACE ARE SEEN RUNNING TERRIFIED THROUGH THE STREETS OF SAN SALVADOR SEEKING PLACES OF REFUGE.</p><p>THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE -- MEN AND WOMEN WITH CHILDREN IN THEIR ARMS -- CAN BE SEEN CARRYING A FEW BELONGINGS AND HOLDING WHITE FLAGS AS THEY WALK TO SHELTERS OPENED BY VARIOUS CHURCHES, WHERE THEY RECEIVE FOOD AND MEDICINE.</p><p>THE PRECARIOUS SITUATION OF THOUSANDS OF SALVADORANS "IS VERY [WORDS INDISTINCT] THOUSANDS OF REFUGEES.</p><p>THE EXODUS OF SALVADORANS HAS GROWN EVEN MORE IN VIEW OF THE STRICT SECURITY MEASURES IMPLEMENTED THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY, SUCH AS THE STATE OF SIEGE AND THE 24-HOUR CURFEW ENFORCED IN THE DEPARTMENTS WHERE CLASHES ARE TAKING PLACE AND 12 HOURS IN THE REST OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>SO FAR WE HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO OBTAIN INFORMATION ON THE NUMBER OF CASUALTIES AS A RESULT OF CLASHES AND THE BOMBINGS THAT TOOK PLACE LAST NIGHT AND THIS MORNING.</p><p>THE INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS HAS NOT BEEN ABLE TO ENTER THE NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE CLASHES ARE TAKING PLACE DUE TO THE HEAVY FIGHTING, AND THE AUTHORITIES HAVE REJECTED A PROPOSAL FOR A TEMPORARY TRUCE TO EVACUATE THE WOUNDED AND PERMIT THE BURIAL OF BODIES STILL LAYING IN THE STREETS OF SAN SALVADOR.</p></body></html>