<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1186"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1186"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MEDELLIN"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1186</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1186 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>MEDELLIN, 23 MAR 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] DIEGO MONTANA CUELLAR, PRESIDENT OF THE PATRIOTIC UNION [UP], HAS RECEIVED A LETTER SIGNED BY PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA, IN WHICH HE EMPHATICALLY DENIES ANY PARTICIPATION IN THE ASSASSINATION OF BERNARDO JARAMILLO OSSA.</p><p>THE LETTER, WHICH CARRIES ESCOBAR GAVIRIA'S SIGNATURE AND FINGERPRINT, WAS ALSO SENT TO THE MEDELLIN MEDIA.</p><p>IN HIS LETTER TO THE UP, ESCOBAR GAVIRIA STATED: I ALWAYS LIKED, ADMIRED, AND RESPECTED BERNARDO JARAMILLO.</p><p>ESCOBAR GAVIRIA DISCLOSED THAT HE MET SEVERAL TIMES TO INTERCEDE WITH GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA TO ENSURE THAT JARAMILLO OSSA'S LIFE WOULD BE RESPECTED. ESCOBAR GAVIRIA ADDED: THIS CAN BE CONFIRMED BY MANY MEMBERS OF JARAMILLO OSSA'S POLITICAL MOVEMENT AND EVEN BY SOME OF HIS DAS [ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY] BODYGUARDS WHO WERE WITNESSES AT THOSE MEETINGS. [SENTENCE AS HEARD]</p><p>IN HIS LETTER TO MONTANA CUELLAR, ESCOBAR GAVIRIA SAID HE WAS AMAZED BY HOW EASILY AND QUICKLY THE GOVERNMENT HAS FOUND SOMEONE TO BLAME.</p><p>STATE SECURITY AGENCY SPOKESMEN SAID ON 22 MARCH THAT THEY HAVE PROOF LINKING ESCOBAR GAVIRIA TO THE ASSASSINATION. THE ASSOCIATED PRESS [AP] HAS ALSO RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALLS IN WHICH AN ALLEGED SPOKESMEN OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ASSASSINATION OF JARAMILLO OSSA.</p><p>IN HIS LETTER TO THE UP, ESCOBAR GAVIRIA DISAVOWS THOSE CALLS, STATING: WHY SHOULD I ATTACK SOMEONE WHO WAS FIRMLY OPPOSED TO COLOMBIA SURRENDERING TO THE UNITED STATES?</p></body></html>