<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0027"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0027"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0027</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0027 (NOSC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 JAN 90 (CANAL SEIS TELEVISION) -- [REPORT] [NANCY PERLA] [TEXT] SALVADORAN VICE PRESIDENT FRANCISCO MERINO HAS DESCRIBED THE POSSIBLE RESUMPTION OF DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE REBELS AS POSITIVE.</p><p>MERINO SAID THAT THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] SHOULD NOT CLAIM CREDIT FOR THE RESUMPTION OF A DIALOGUE BECAUSE IT WAS PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI WHO TOOK THE INITIATIVE IN RESUMING THE TALKS. MERINO ADDED THAT THE REBELS SHOULD ABANDON THE DELAYING AND IRRESPONSIBLE TACTICS REGARDING THE DIALOGUE BECAUSE THE FMLN HAS LOST CREDIBILITY BOTH IN THE MILITARY SENSE AND IN INTERNATIONAL POLITICS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MERINO] THE FMLN HAS LOST CREDIBILITY IN ALL OF ITS ACTIVITIES, INCLUDING MILITARY ACTIONS. THE ONLY VALID ALTERNATIVE TO PACIFY THE COUNTRY IS FOR THE REBELS TO STOP HOSTILITIES, VIOLENCE, AND TERRORISM. WE SHOULD JOINTLY EXPLORE THE POSSIBILITIES OF THEIR JOINING THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>HE ALSO SAID ONE OF THE ALTERNATIVES READILY AVAILABLE TO THE FMLN IS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE ELECTIONS FOR DELEGATES TO THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PARLIAMENT.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MERINO] EL SALVADOR HAS PROPOSED AT THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY TO RATIFY THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PARLIAMENT PROTOCOL. THIS WOULD OPEN THE DOOR FOR THE SPECIAL ELECTION OF THE SALVADORAN DELEGATES TO THE PARLIAMENT. IF A TRULY DEMOCRATIC WILLINGNESS BY THE FMLN EXISTS, THIS COULD BE THEIR FIRST OPPORTUNITY TO PARTICIPATE. IT HAS NOT YET BEEN DECIDED WHETHER THIS ELECTION WILL BE HELD BEFORE THE 1991 OFFICIAL ELECTIONS FOR MAYORS AND DEPUTIES. THE GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN COULD JOINTLY CONSIDER THE ADVANTAGES OF A SPECIAL ELECTION THIS YEAR. THEN WE COULD MAKE PREPARATIONS FOR THE 1991 CONSTITUTIONAL ELECTIONS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>REGARDING THE FMLN MILITARY ACTIONS, MERINO SAID THE GOVERNMENT IS FAMILIAR WITH THE REBELS' TACTICS, PARTICULARLY WHEN TALKS ARE BEING CONSIDERED. HE ALSO SAID THE REBELS OPERATE IN CYCLES.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MERINO] THE GOVERNMENT HAS NEVER REACTED NAIVELY TO THE FMLN TERRORISTS' STATEMENTS OR THEIR PARTICIPATION IN THE DIALOGUE. WE ARE FULLY AWARE OF THEIR PLANS AND STRATEGIES. THE GOVERNMENT, HOWEVER, BEARS THE PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITY OF SEEKING HARMONY AND THE CITIZENS'S SECURITY. [END RECORDING]</p><p>AFTER THE REBELS' COUNTEROFFENSIVE IN NOVEMBER, WHICH WAS REGARDED AS THE LARGEST MILITARY OPERATION IN THE PAST 10 YEARS, THE POSSIBILITY FOR A NEW DIALOGUE HAS APPEARED IN EL SALVADOR ONCE MORE, CREATING EXPECTATIONS, BOTH HERE AND ABROAD. THE COMING MEETING OF PRESIDENT CRISTIANI WITH UNITED NATION'S REPRESENTATIVES, SCHEDULED FOR NEXT WEEK, AND THE MEETING ON 12 JANUARY OF A REBEL DELEGATION WITH A UNITED NATIONS OFFICIAL SEEM TO INDICATE THAT TALKS WILL BE HELD SHORTLY.</p></body></html>