<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0697"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0697"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0697</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0697 (GE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 12 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] HERE IS REPORT FROM THE COUNTRY'S CENTRAL ZONE, NAMELY, SAN SALVADOR AND THE OUTSKIRTS AREA. PLAY CLOSE ATTENTION. THE REPORT SAYS THAT FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] FIGHTERS, FIGHTERS OF THE GREAT ARMY OF THE RED FLAG WITH THE WHITE STAR, OF THE WORKERS' ARMY, WHICH WILL HONORABLY HOIST OUR FATHERLAND'S WHITE AND BLUE FLAG....[CHANGES THOUGHT] WE REPORT THAT GUERRILLA UNITS ATTACKED THE CEL [LEMPA RIVER HYDROELECTRIC EXECUTIVE COMMISSION] MINISTATION IN AGUA CALIENTE, SOYAPANGO, SAN MIGUEL DEPARTMENT. THE ATTACK WAS CARRIED OUT WITH GRENADES. OUR PERSONNEL ARE MAINTAINING BARRICADES FROM THE LOS ALPES NEIGHBORHOOD TO THE HEART OF SOYAPANGO. THE ENEMY HAS SENT THE TREASURY POLICE'S LIBERTADOR BATTALION TO REINFORCE POSITIONS NEAR THE PRADOS DE VENECIA NEIGHBORHOOD.</p><p>DURING THE FIGHTING, THE ENEMY SUSTAINED SEVERAL CASUALTIES; A SUBSERGEANT WAS KILLED. THE GUERRILLA UNITS ARE MAINTAINING CONTROL OF THE BOSQUES DEL RIO NEIGHBORHOOD, AND IN SAN JOSE, LOS ANGELES, UNICENTRO, LOS CONACASTES AREAS, AND EL PEPETO NEIGHBORHOOD. IN THESE AREAS, OUR FORCES INFLICTED 50 CASUALTIES ON THE FASCIST ARMY, INCLUDING A FULL SECTION OF THE PARATROOPERS BATTALION. EARLIER, WE REPORTED THAT A HUGHES-500 HELICOPTER WAS DAMAGED.</p><p>ANOTHER REPORT FROM NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR INDICATES THAT GUERRILLA UNITS THAT ENTERED APOPA, 12 KMS FROM SAN SALVADOR, TOOK CONTROL OF THE TICAL 1 AND 2, NUEVO APOPA, SAN ANDRES, LA CRUCITA, MADRE TIERRA, AND SIERRA NUESTRA NEIGHBORHOODS. IN THIS SECTOR, FIVE CASUALTIES WERE INFLICTED ON THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE'S LIBERTAD BATTALION AND THREE CASAULTIES ON THE NATIONAL GUARD. FIGHTING IS RAGING AT THE CENTER OF APOPA AND FIVE MORE CASUALTIES WERE INFLICTED ON THE PARATROOPERS BATTALION IN THE SAN JOSE 2 NEIGHBHORHOOD IN SOYAPANGO. ONE UH-1H HELICOPTER WAS SEVERLY DAMAGED IN THIS SECTOR. THIS IS A LAST MINUTE REPORT THAT HAS REACHED RADIO VENCEREMOS.</p></body></html>