<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0850"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0850"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0850</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0850 (PRC)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 22 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] CHILE HAS RESUMED DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH CZECHOESLOVAKIA AS OF WEDNESDAY, 22 NOVEMBER [AS HEARD]. THIS INFORMATION WAS RELEASED BY FOREIGN MINISTER HERNAN FELIPE ERRAZURIZ. THE MINISTER ADDED THAT THIS IS THE FOURTH SOCIALIST COUNTRY WITH WHICH CHILE HAS NORMALIZED RELATIONS. HE ALSO EXPLAINED THAT THIS STEP IS PART OF THE PRESIDENT AUGUSTO PINOCHET'S POLICY TO INCREASE THE PRESENCE OF CHILE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.</p><p>THE MINISTER INDICATED THAT THE CHILEAN COMMUNITY IN EL SALAVADOR AND THE MEMBERS OF CHILE'S DIPLOMATIC MISSION THERE ARE FINE, FOLLOWING THE RAID STAGED BY THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT ON THE SHERATON HOTEL IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [REPORTER] WHAT INFORMATION DOES THE FOREIGN MINISTRY HAVE ABOUT CHILEAN RESIDENTS IN EL SALVADOR?</p><p>[ERRAZURIZ] AS WE REPORTED YESTERDAY, THERE ARE PERMANENT CONTACTS BETWEEN THE MINISTRY AND THE CHILEAN EMBASSY IN EL SALVADOR AND, OBVIOUSLY, WITH THE SALVADORAN AMBASSADOR IN SANTIAGO. BASICALLY, BOTH THE MEMBERS OF THE CHILEAN COMMUNITY AND THE MEMBERS OF THE DIPLOMATIC MISSION ARE FINE. WE HAVE RECEIVED INFORMATION TO THE EFFECT THAT THERE IS CLEAR INVOLVEMENT OF CUBA AND NICARAGUA IN THE RECENT TERRORIST ONSLAUGHT IN EL SALVADOR, AND WE WANT TO EXPRESS OUR SOLIDARITY WITH THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S STRUGGLE TO DEFEND THEIR DEMOCRACY. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE CHILEAN FOREIGN MINISTER EXPLAINED THAT THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT HAS OFFICIALLY DECIDED TO SUSPEND NORMAL MOVEMENT OF PEOPLE ACROSS THE BORDER BETWEEN TACNA AND ARICA. HE ADDED THAT BORDER RESTRICTIONS ALSO APPLY TO BOLIVIA AND ECUADOR.</p><p>ERRAZURIZ ADDED THAT THE CHILEAN FOREIGN MINISTRY IS IN TOUCH WITH THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT, THE CHILEAN EMBASSY IN LIMA, AND PERUVIAN CUSTOMS OFFICIALS IN AN EFFORT TO NORMALIZE THE MOVEMENT ACROSS THE CHILEAN-PERUVIAN BORDER.</p><p>THE FOREIGN MINISTER CONCLUDED BY SAYING THAT THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT HAS APPOINTED AMBASSADOR SANTIAGO BENADAVA EXECUTIVE SECRETARY OF THE CHILEAN-ARGENTINE COMMISSION FOR PHYSICAL AND ECONOMIC INTEGRATION. SANTIAGO BENADAVA WILL THUS REPLACE GENERAL ENRIQUE MOREL.</p></body></html>