<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1082"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1082"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1082</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1082 (UNISYS)</p><p>LIMA, 30 JAN 90 (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [REPORT] [EXCERPTS] PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA HAS CALLED FOR CALM AND SERIOUSNESS IN THE POLITICAL DEBATES AMONG THE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES. HE DESCRIBED ONE OF THEM AS BEING INTELLECTUALLY IMMATURE IN VIEW OF THE CONSTANT ATTACKS THE LATTER ALWAYS MAKES. THE RIGHT, GARCIA SAID, MUST BE TAUGHT A LESSON OF MATURITY AND SERIOUSNESS.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT SAID THAT THE FIRST SPECIAL CONGRESSIONAL SESSION WILL BE HELD FROM 5-6 FEBRUARY TO SPECIFICALLY DISCUSS INTERNAL BORDER DELIMITATIONS. HE ALSO SAID THAT NO NEW CENTRAL BANK DIRECTOR WILL BE APPOINTED, WHICH WILL ALLOW THE NEXT ADMINISTRATION TO DO SO.</p><p>FOR THE TIME BEING, THE PRESIDENT ADDED, HE CANNOT EITHER CONFIRM OR DENY THAT HE WILL ATTEND THE ANTIDRUG SUMMIT IN COLOMBIA BECAUSE THE SITUATION IN PANAMA COULD CHANGE IN THE REMAINING 15 DAYS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [REPORTER] MR PRESIDENT, THERE ARE STILL 16 DAYS UNTIL THE CARTAGENA SUMMIT. HAVE YOU MADE A FINAL DECISION ON WHETHER YOU WILL ATTEND OR NOT?</p><p>[GARCIA] NO, I HAVE NOT MADE A DECISION YET BECAUSE PERUVIAN FOREIGN POLICY FOLLOWS ITS PRINCIPLES, WHILE THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC -- DESPITE WHAT SOME PEOPLE MAY SAY -- FOLLOWS HIS, AND THESE PRINCIPLES ARE LOYAL TO CERTAIN ESSENTIAL CONCEPTS.</p><p>WE ARE YET NOT COMPLETELY SURE THAT THE INVADING COUNTRY, THE UNITED STATES, IS TOTALLY WILLING TO OR INTENDS TO WITHDRAW ITS SOLDIERS FROM A SMALL LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRY. AS LONG AS THIS DOES NOT OCCUR, AS YOU MUST UNDERSTAND, IT IS DESPICABLE AND NEARLY IMPOSSIBLE FOR ME TO SIT DOWN AT A TABLE WITH SOMEONE WHO IS ABUSING A SMALL COUNTRY WITH HIS ALMIGHTY POSITION. MANY THINGS CAN HAPPEN IN 15 OR 16 DAYS.</p><p>I AM NOT SAYING EITHER YES OR NO, BUT I THINK THAT THINGS MUST SOMEHOW CHANGE FOR THE BETTER IN ORDER TO HOLD A CORDIAL MEETING. UNDER THE CURRENT CIRCUMSTANCES, IT IS DOUBTFUL THAT THE PRESIDENTS CAN HOLD A CORDIAL MEETING AS LONG AS ONE OF THEM IS PLACING AN ATOMIC BOMB AND THE THREAT OF INVASION ON THE TABLE.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[GARCIA] YES, I THINK THAT THAT MAGAZINE IS WELL INFORMED, BECAUSE THERE HAVE BEEN SOME MISUNDERSTANDINGS. AS YOU KNOW, EXPERTS FROM THE FOUR COUNTRIES MET IN SANTA CRUZ DE LA SIERRA, BOLIVIA, TO PREPARE A DOCUMENT. WHEN EVERYTHING SEEMED TO BE READY TO SIGN THE FINAL DOCUMENT, ONE OF THE COUNTRIES PROPOSED SOME MODIFICATIONS CHANGING THE STRUCTURE OF THE CONCEPT.</p><p>THE FIRST TIME I WENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS, 4 AND 1/2 YEARS AGO, I TOLD THE UNITED STATES THAT THIS IS NOT A PROBLEM OF HELICOPTERS OR BULLETS. THIS IS A PROBLEM OF BETTER PRICES FOR COCOA, COFFEE, AND ANNATTO SEEDS. THIS IS A PROBLEM WITH THE PROCESSING FACTORIES IN THE HIGHER HUALLAGA VALLEY AREA AND AIRLINES THAT TRANSPORT THESE PRODUCTS TO THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>THIS CONCEPT HAS BEEN ACCEPTED AFTER 4 AND 1/2 YEARS; WHEN IT WAS FINALLY ABOUT TO BE PUT DOWN IN THE DOCUMENT IN SANTA CRUZ, ONE OF THE COUNTRIES MODIFIED IT, THUS HINDERING FURTHER PROGRESS IN THE NEGOTIATIONS. THIS SUBJECT IS NOW BEING REVIEWED, AND THE SUMMIT COULD BE POSTPONED FOR A FEW DAYS UNTIL WE REACH FULL AGREEMENT ON SUCH AN IMPORTANT SUMMIT, WHICH WAS PROPOSED BY THE PERUVIAN PRESIDENCY.</p><p>WE MUST GATHER AT THE CARTAGENA SUMMIT WITH A CONCRETE PROPOSAL. IT CANNOT BE SIMPLY A SOCIAL GATHERING. WE ARE NOT TEENAGERS WHO ARE ATTENDING THE MEETING SIMPLY BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT OF THE MOST IMPORTANT COUNTRY IN THE WORLD WILL BE THERE. WE CANNOT GO THERE AS DESPERATE AND DAZZLED YOUNGSTERS TO HOLD HIS HAND. WE MUST MAKE CONCRETE PROPOSALS TO OBTAIN FUNDS FOR PERU, WORK AND HONOR FOR THE HUALLAGA VALLEY PEASANTS, AND RESPECT FOR THE LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES, PARTICULARLY SINCE IT IS CLEAR THAT THE ORIGIN OF THE PROBLEM IS IN THE CONSUMERS OF THE RICH COUNTRIES, ESPECIALLY THE UNITED STATES. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>