<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0093"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0093"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0093</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0093 (NOSC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 27 MAR 89 -- [TEXT] ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL SOURCES, THE HOLY WEEK TRUCE WAS APPARENTLY BROKEN OVER THE WEEKEND BY SEVERAL REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (FARC) FRONTS IN ANTIOQUIA, META, AND HUILA DEPARTMENTS. ONE ARMY LIEUTENANT, FOUR SOLDIERS, AND THREE CIVILIANS WERE KILLED DURING THE ATTACKS.</p><p>THE DEFENSE MINISTRY REPORTED THE FIRST INCIDENT TOOK PLACE AT LA LINEA, A CORREGIMIENTO LOCATED IN ALGECIRAS MUNICIPALITY, HUILA DEPARTMENT, WHERE A FARC FRONT AMBUSHED AN 11TH BRIGADE ARMY PATROL. SEVERAL MINES PLACED IN THE AREA WENT OFF WHEN THE SOLDIERS PASSED THROUGH LA LINEA CORREGIMIENTO. LIEUTENANT JAIME QUINTERO CARDONA AND SOLDIERS NELSON SANCHEZ MOLINA, MAXIMILIANO SERRATO CUELLAR, AND DAIRO SUAREZ SUAREZ WERE KILLED IN THIS ACTION.</p><p>IN ADDITION, THE FERVOR OF THE SATURDAY PROCESSION AND PRAYERS WERE INTERRUPTED IN SANTA RITA CORREGIMIENTO, ITUANGO MUNICIPALITY, ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT, AT 1800 BY 200 GUERRILLAS WHO ENTERED THE TOWN SHOOTING AT ARMY TROOPS--APPROXIMATELY 72 SOLDIERS--WHO WERE RETURNING TO THE TOWN AFTER THEIR PATROL OPERATIONS.</p><p>GIRARDO BATTALION OFFICERS, WHO ASKED US NOT TO REVEAL THEIR NAMES, STATED THAT THE REBELS, WHO WERE MEMBERS OF THE FARC 28TH FRONT, ATTACKED TWO TRUCKS FILLED WITH SOLDIERS.</p><p>THE SANTA RITA POLICE CHIEF FOUND THE BODIES OF A SOLDIER AND A REBEL ON THE ROAD LEADING TO SANTA RITA. THE SOLDIER WAS IDENTIFIED AS EDISON ESTRADA BOLIVAR. SOLDIER RAUL DURANGO HERRERA WAS WOUNDED AND TAKEN TO THE PABLO TOBON URIBE HOSPITAL IN MEDELLIN.</p><p>THE DEAD REBEL, WHO HAS NOT YET BEEN IDENTIFIED, HAD A SUBMACHINEGUN, 3 CLIPS, AND 30 9-MM CARTRIDGES ON HIM.</p><p>ITUANGO MUNICIPALITY, 195 KM NORTH OF MEDELLIN, IS NEAR LOWER CAUCA, WHERE THE ARMY DISMANTLED DURING HOLY WEEK A FARC 37TH FRONT PLAN DESIGNED TO COMMIT AND CARRY OUT AMBUSHES AND ASSAULTS.</p><p>MEANWHILE, AT LEAST 50 FARC REBELS BLEW UP A JEEP NEAR SAN JUAN DE URAMA MUNICIPALITY NEAR ROAD NO 32 IN META DEPARTMENT.</p><p>ACCORDING TO POLICE COMMANDER COLONEL JOSE WILLIAM BERMUDEZ ZAPATA, WHO COMMANDS ANTIGUERRILLA OPERATIONS WITH THE SUPPORT OF 7TH BRIGADE TROOPS, THE REBELS KILLED THREE PEOPLE AND TOOK THE FOURTH PASSENGER OF THE JEEP WITH THEM.</p><p>THE VICTIMS--WHO WERE INVOLVED IN COCAINE TRAFFICKING--ARE: ALFONSO OLIVARES, ALIAS PICO FRESCO; AN N.N. [NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED] KNOWN AS EL MOCHO; AND ROMAN OLIVARES GUTIERREZ. JAIME MONTEALEGRE IS THE NAME OF THE PERSON TAKEN BY THE REBELS.</p><p>MEANWHILE, WE HAVE BEEN UNABLE TO OBTAIN INFORMATION ABOUT THE RESULTS OF THE OPERATIONS CONDUCTED BY 5TH BRIGADE TROOPS COMMANDED BY GENERAL ALFONSO VACA PERILLA IN THE AREAS OF EL CARMEN AND SAN VICENTE DE CHUCURRI, SANTANDER DEPARTMENT.</p><p>COL JORGE ERNESTO FERRERO ECHEVERRI, SANTANDER DEPARTMENT POLICE COMMANDER, SAID THE SPECIAL SECURITY COUNCIL WILL MEET TODAY (MONDAY) TO ASSESS THE SITUATION.</p><p>COL FERRERO EXPLAINED THAT "IN PRINCIPLE, WE HAVE REPORTS SAYING MANY PEOPLE WERE KILLED, BUT WE DO NOT KNOW EXACTLY HOW MANY. WE KNOW SEVEN PEASANTS WERE MURDERED BY FARC 12TH FRONT MEMBERS."</p><p>HELICOPTERS CONTINUE OVERFLYING THE BATTLE ZONE. AIRBORNE TROOPS REPLACED THE TROOPS WHO WERE FIGHTING AGAINST THE MEN UP IN ARMS.</p><p>PEASANTS WHO ARRIVED AT SAN VICENTE CHUCURRI SAID POWERFUL EXPLOSIONS HAVE BEEN CONTINUOUSLY HEARD SINCE THE MILITARY ACTIONS BEGAN ON 22 MARCH.</p><p>ARMY OFFICERS BELIEVE THE REBEL COLUMN IS SURROUNDED IN A MOUNTAINOUS STRIP LOCATED BETWEEN EL CARMEN AND SAN VICENTE CHUCURRI MUNICIPALITIES.</p><p>GEN VACA PERILLA RETURNED TO THE AREA YESTERDAY, BUT HE DID NOT MAKE ANY STATEMENTS. HE HAS BEEN COMMANDING OPERATIONS IN THE AREA FOR THE LAST 5 DAYS.</p><p>AN UNOFFICIAL REPORT INDICATED TWO HELICOPTERS WERE HIT BY FARC REBELS' RIFLE FIRE.</p><p>SAN VICENTE CHUCURRI PARISH PRIEST JUVENAL MARTINEZ SAID THE AREA RESIDENTS AND THE COMMON FRONT ARE TRYING TO FORM A COMMISSION TO VERIFY WHAT IS GOING ON IN THE AREA.</p></body></html>