<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1166"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1166"/><meta name="DC.date" content="2011-03-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1166</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1166 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 11 MAR 11 (TASS) -- [ARTICLE] [GENNADIY PETROV] [TEXT] AFTER STAYING IN POWER FOR 16 YEARS, GENERAL AUGUSTO PINOCHET WAS FINALLY COMPELLED TO LEAVE THE LA MONEDA PRESIDENTIAL PALACE, WHICH HE CAPTURED DURING THE MILITARY COUP OF SEPTEMBER 11, 1973.</p><p>LAWYER PATRICIO AYLWIN, 71, LEADER OF THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY, BECAME ITS NEW MASTER TODAY. HE SCORED A SWEEPING VICTORY DURING DECEMBER'S GENERAL ELECTIONS WITH THE SUPPORT OF ALL THE OPPOSITION PARTIES, INCLUDING COMMUNISTS.</p><p>THE RESTORATION OF DEMOCRACY IN CHILE WILL BY NO MEANS BE EASY. BOMB EXPLOSIONS SHOOK THE CAPITAL ON THE EVE OF THE INAUGURATION CEREMONY AS MILITANTS REMINDED THE PUBLIC OF THEIR PRESENCE.</p><p>ACCORDING TO AYLWIN, IT IS IMPORTANT FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO OVERCOME THE DEEP POLITICAL DIVISION OF CHILEAN SOCIETY. "ONLY THIS," AYLWIN BELIEVES, "WILL ALLOW CHILE TO DO AWAY WITH VESTIGES OF THE TOTALITARIAN SYSTEM AND EVENTUALLY EXPAND PARLIAMENT'S POWERS, TO AMEND THE CONSTITUTION AND THE UNFAIR ELECTORAL SYSTEM AND TO LEGALISE BANNED PARTIES.</p><p>ANALYSTS BELIEVE THE REVIVAL OF CHILE, WHICH HAS LONG-STANDING DEMOCRATIC TRADITIONS, WILL BE HELD BACK BY THE FACT THAT, ACCORDING TO THE CONSTITUTION IN FORCE, PINOCHET WILL REMAIN COMMANDER-IN- CHIEF OF THE GROUND FORCES FOR EIGHT MORE YEARS. THIS SUBSTANTIALLY CURTAILS THE PRESIDENT'S RIGHTS AS SUPREME COMMANDER OF THE COUNTRY'S ARMED FORCES. FURTHERMORE, BEFORE STEPPING DOWN, THE FORMER RULER HAS ENSURED HIMSELF AN OBEDIENT MAJORITY IN THE SENATE, THE CHILEAN PARLIAMENT'S UPPER CHAMBER.</p><p>IN THE INTERNATIONAL ARENA THE NEW GOVERNMENT WILL HAVE TO OVERCOME THE ISOLATION THAT RESULTED FROM THE YEARS OF DICTATORSHIP, WHEN HUMAN RIGHTS WERE GROSSLY VIOLATED AND THOUSANDS OF FREEDOM FIGHTERS WERE RUTHLESSLY PERSECUTED OR ELIMINATED. THIS TASK IS FACILITATED BY THE FACT THAT RELAXATION PROCESSES ARE GAINING MOMENTUM IN THE WORLD AND EAST-WEST COOPERATION IS ON THE UPSWING.</p><p>NUMEROUS FOREIGN GUESTS, INCLUDING A SOVIET DELEGATION, ARRIVED FOR THE INAUGURATION CEREMONY AND THE TRANSFER OF POWER TO A CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT. AN AGREEMENT IS EXPECTED TO BE SIGNED THESE DAYS ON THE RESTORATION OF DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS BETWEEN THE SOVIET UNION AND CHILE AND ON THE OPENING OF THEIR RESPECTIVE EMBASSIES IN MOSCOW AND SANTIAGO.</p></body></html>