<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1284"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1284"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1284</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1284 (BOEING)</p><p>LIMA, 14 MAY 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE PERUVIAN POLICE, AND PARTS OF THE ARMY, HAVE RECEIVED ORDERS OF "STRICT CONFINEMENT TO BARRACKS" IN VIEW OF THE 17 MAY ANNIVERSARY OF THE TERRORIST ORGANIZATION SHINING PATH. THE ORGANIZATION HAS ANNOUNCED IT WILL CELEBRATE ITS 10TH ANNIVERSARY WITH AN INCREASE IN ARMED OPERATIONS.</p><p>PERUVIAN AUTHORITIES HAVE DISCOVERED THAT THE GROUP THAT REBELLED ON 17 MAY 1980 HAS DEVISED "A CELEBRATIONS PLAN" AND THAT IT INTENDS TO IMPLEMENT THE PLAN AS "A SIGN OF VICTORY" IN THE "STRUGGLE OF MOVEMENTS," AN IDEOLOGY INSPIRED IN MAO ZEDONG'S DOCTRINE.</p><p>ARMY PERSONNEL HAVE BEEN CONFINED TO BARRACKS SINCE THE NIGHT OF 12 MAY AND HAVE ALREADY PARTICIPATED ON JOINT OPERATIONS WITH THE POLICE TO ARREST 500 ALLEGED TERRORISTS.</p><p>IN LIMA, 8,000 POLICE AGENTS AND A SPECIAL ANTIEXPLOSIVES SQUAD LAUNCHED "A GIGANTIC OPERATION" OF "BLOCKADES AND SATURATION."</p><p>A POLICE SPOKESMAN TOLD EFE THAT THEY HAD ORDERS "TO CAREFULLY COMB THE NEW URBAN AREAS AND SEARCH FOR SUSPECTED CRIMINALS, ARMS, EXPLOSIVES, OR SUBVERSIVE MATERIAL."</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE SPOKESMAN, THE LIMA POLICE DEPARTMENT HEADED BY GENERAL OSVALDO DIAZ HAS ORDERS "TO WATCH ROADS ENTERING THE CITY, TO INSTALL EMERGENCY CHECK POINTS IN STRATEGIC LOCATIONS, AND TO REPORT ON ANYTHING UNUSUAL."</p><p>ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL SOURCES, THE OPERATION WILL CONTINUE UNTIL AFTER THE RUNOFF ELECTION, WHICH IS EXPECTED TO BE HELD ON 10 JUNE.</p><p>THE POLICE HAVE LAUNCHED SIMILAR OPERATIONS IN REGIONS WHERE GUERRILLA ACTIVITY IS RAMPANT SUCH AS AYACUCHO, PUNO, HUANCAYO, AND HUANCAVELICA IN THE PERUVIAN CENTRAL HIGHLANDS. THESE REGIONS ARE ALL UNDER STATES OF EMERGENCY AND UNDER MILITARY CONTROL.</p><p>SHINING PATH, CONSIDERED ONE OF THE MOST IMPENETRABLE AND ORTHODOX ARMED MOVEMENTS IN LATIN AMERICA, BEGAN CELEBRATING ITS ANNIVERSARY IN LIMA LAST WEEK BY BURNING 11 STATE TRANSPORT COMPANY BUSES. THE BUSES WERE ATTACKED BY HOODED INDIVIDUALS THOUGHT TO BE SHINING PATH MILITANTS.</p><p>ON 11 MAY A BOMB DESTROYED A BUILDING OWNED BY THE FAMILY OF THE MAYOR OF LIMA. IN ANOTHER INCIDENT IN LIMA TODAY, POLICE CORPORAL OSWALDO PALOMINO, WHO SERVED IN AYACUCHO UNTIL A SHORT TIME AGO, WAS SHOT TO DEATH.</p><p>IN AYACUCHO, WHERE THE THE COMUNIST PARTY OF PERU -- "OFFICIAL" NAME OF SHINING PATH -- WAS BORN AND DEVELOPED, TWO PEOPLE WERE MURDERED, AND VARIOUS HOME-MADE BOMBS EXPLODED IN IN THE LAST 24 HOURS.</p><p>COUNCILMEN JUAN MANUEL GARABITO FROM PIURA, 1,100 KM NORTH OF LIMA, HAS ALSO BEEN SHOT TO DEATH. AUTHORITIES BLAMED SHINING PATH FOR THESE ATTACKS.</p><p>OBSERVERS OF THE PERUVIAN GUERRILLA MOVEMENT TOLD EFE THAT THE GROWING TIDE OF VIOLENCE ATTIBUTED TO SHINING PATH INDICATES THAT THE RADICAL, OR "RED" SECTOR, OF THE REBEL GROUP HAS TAKEN CONTROL OF THE ORGANIZATION.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE SOURCES, TWO DIFFERENT FACTIONS WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION CLASHED OVER THE CELEBRATION OF THE GROUP'S ANNIVERSARY: THE YOUNGER AND RADICAL SECTORS FAVORED PURELY MILITARY OPERATIONS WHILE THE OLDER SECTOR, OR "BLACKS," FAVORED MORE POLITICAL AND HISTORIC ACTIVITIES.</p><p>SHINING PATH, WHICH OFFICIALLY OPERATES WITH APPROXIMATELY 5,000 ARMED MEN, HAS CAUSED THE DEATH OF 20,000 PEOPLE, INCLUDING 7,000 CIVILIANS, AND IT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR $17 BILLION IN DIRECT DAMAGES TO THE COUNTRY OVER ITS 10 YEAR HISTORY.</p></body></html>