<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0525"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0525"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY (COLOMBIA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0525</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0525 (UMASS)</p><p>NO CITY (COLOMBIA), 27 SEP 89 -- [TEXT] [BARCO] SOME OF THE ARRESTED PERSONS ARE EXTRADITABLE. THE PEOPLE HAVE RISEN UP AGAINST TERRORISM, AND THE TERRORISTS CANNOT HIDE FOREVER.</p><p>THIRD, MUCH INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT FOR COLOMBIA, ITS DEMOCRACY, ITS PEOPLE, AND ITS GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN MOBILIZED. COLOMBIA IS NO LONGER SEEN AS A COUNTRY OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS, SOMETHING IT HAS NEVER BEEN AND NEVER WILL BE.</p><p>NOW EVERYONE UNDERSTANDS THAT WE ARE A COUNTRY OF BRAVE PEOPLE WHERE THE MAJORITY ARE HONEST AND HARD-WORKING. THE WORLD HAS ACKNOWLEDGED AND PRAISED DEMOCRACY IN COLOMBIA, THE VICTIM OF A PROBLEM IT HAS NOT CREATED.</p><p>FOURTH, INVESTIGATIONS INTO THE CRIMES COMMITTED BY NARCOTERRORISTS CONTINUE GIVING POSITIVE RESULTS. MORE THAN 25 BANDS OF ASSASSINS HAVE BEEN DISMANTLED, AND THEIR MEMBERS HAVE BEEN DISPERSED. TWO OF THE PEOPLE WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE ASSASSINATION OF LUIS CARLOS GALAN HAVE CONFESSED TO THE CRIME. THE DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE SECURITY HAS IDENTIFIED 110 PERSONS WHO FORM PART OF A NARCOTERRORIST NETWORK. THE MOST IMPORTANT ASSASSINATIONS HAVE BEEN CLEARED UP.</p><p>FIFTH, THE AUTHORITIES HAVE BEEN ABLE TO CHECK THE TERRORISTS' COUNTEROFFENSIVE, ALTHOUGH IT CANNOT BE DENIED THAT THE CRIMINALS ARE STILL CAPABLE OF CAUSING MUCH DAMAGE. THIS HAS BEEN MADE EVIDENT BY THE EXPLOSIVES THEY HAVE PLACED, THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE DIED AND WHO HAVE BEEN INJURED, AND THE FIRES THEY HAVE PRODUCED.</p><p>THE AUTHORITIES HAVE BEEN ABLE TO FRUSTRATE MANY ATTACKS. CRIMINALS WHO HAVE CARRIED OUT ATTACKS HAVE BEEN CAPTURED. FOR EXAMPLE, IN MEDELLIN, 35 CRIMINALS WHO WERE COORDINATING WITH THE TERRORIST NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY HAVE BEEN CAPTURED.</p><p>SIXTH, DRUG TRAFFICKING CAPABILITIES HAVE DECREASED. NOW THERE IS MUCH LESS COCAINE IN THE UNITED STATES AND IN OTHER WORLD MARKETS. IT IS IMPORTANT TO EMPHASIZE THE FACT THAT IT IS UP TO THE UNITED STATES AND THE EUROPEAN COUNTRIES TO INCREASE THEIR ACTIVITIES TO DIMINISH AND CONTROL DRUG CONSUMPTION. IF THERE WERE NO ADDICTS IN THOSE COUNTRIES, THERE WOULD BE NO DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>THIS IS NOT THE ONLY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE OTHER COUNTRIES INVOLVED IN THE WAR AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING. IF DRUG TRAFFICKERS WERE UNABLE TO USE THEIR MONEY THROUGH INTERNATIONAL BANKS AND INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES THAT OTHER COUNTRIES OFFER, THE INCENTIVES FOR THE BUSINESS WOULD VANISH.</p><p>IF THE CHEMICAL PRODUCTS THAT ARE NECESSARY TO PROCESS COCAINE DID NOT ARRIVE IN OUR COUNTRY FROM EUROPE AND THE UNITED STATES, THE DRUG COULD NOT BE PRODUCED.</p><p>IF THE INTERNATIONAL ARMS MARKET WERE UNDER CONTROL, THE TERRORISTS WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN ABLE TO GET THE ARMS THEY HAVE USED TO SPILL SO MUCH BLOOD IN COLOMBIA. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>