<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0917"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0917"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0917</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0917 (GTE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 30 NOV 89 (DIARIO LATINO) -- [TEXT] COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE HAS SAID THAT IN LIGHT OF THE POSSIBILITY OF THE USE OF MISSILES BY THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT], THE SALVADORAN AIR FORCE IS TAKING PRECAUTIONS AND HAS CHANGED ITS FLIGHT TACTICS OR ADOPTED NEW ONES.</p><p>"THE ARMED FORCES IS DETERMINED TO CONFRONT THEM, AND TO ACHIEVE THEIR GOAL THE REBELS WILL HAVE TO STEP OVER THE BODIES OF EVERY SINGLE SOLDIER," COL PONCE SAID.</p><p>COL PONCE ALSO SAID THAT THE ARREST OF U.S. CITIZEN JENNIFER JEAN CASOLO, WHO WAS COVERING UP AN FMLN SAFEHOUSE, IS A HARD BLOW TO THE TERRORISTS BECAUSE CASOLO WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR BRINGING CONGRESSIONAL STAFF AND REPRESENTATIVES OF CHURCHES AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS INTO THE COUNTRY. THESE PEOPLE APPARENTLY CAME TO THE COUNTRY TO PROVIDE HUMANITARIAN AID TO THE DISPLACED.</p><p>PONCE ALSO SAID THAT MANY INTERNATIONALISTS JOIN THE TERRORIST GROUPS, THUS VIOLATING THE RIGHTS OF ALL THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. PONCE SAID THAT THE LEADERS OF THE FRONT GROUPS DEFINED THEIR POSITIONS WHEN THEY JOINED THE FMLN TO CARRY OUT THE SO-CALLED FINAL OFFENSIVE, WHICH HAS PROVEN TO BE A TOTAL FAILURE BECAUSE THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE BELIEVE IN DEMOCRACY AND NOT COMMUNISM.</p><p>THE CHIEF OF THE GENERAL STAFF ALSO MET WITH FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. HE SAID THAT THE FMLN CURRENTLY HAS THE SUPPORT OF ONLY NICARAGUA, CUBA, AND RUSSIA [AS PUBLISHED ], BUT THEY DO NOT HAVE THE ESSENTIAL SUPPORT OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE; THEREFORE, THYE ARE DOOMED TO POLITICAL-MILITARY FAILURE. ALL THE FMLN HAS LEFT IS ITS PROPAGANDA TACTICS AT THE NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL LEVEL.</p><p>COL PONCE TALKED ABOUT THE CASUALTIES INFLICTED ON THE FMLN TERRORISTS THROUGH 0600 [1200 GMT] ON 28 NOVEMBER. PONCE SAID THAT 1,680 REBELS HAD BEEN KILLED AND MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT NUMBER WOUNDED. COL PONCE ADDED THAT THE ARMY REGRETS THE HEROIC DEATHS OF 398 SOLDIERS AND APPROXIMATELY 800 WOUNDED IN CLASHES SINCE 11 NOVEMBER.</p></body></html>