<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1095"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1095"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1095</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1095 (UNISYS)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 10 FEB 90 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [REPORT] [GRACIELA CONTRERAS] [TEXT] PRESIDENT AUGUSTO PINOCHET SAID HERE THAT THIS IS THE LAST CITY HE WILL VISIT DURING THE FIRST PART OF HIS NATIONWIDE TOUR TO BID TAKE LEAVE OF THE CITIZENRY AS CHIEF OF STATE. HE ALSO THANKED THE CHILEAN PEOPLE FOR THEIR HARD WORK TO MAKE PROGRESS.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT SAID HE WAS PLEASED TO OBSERVE OPTIMISM AMONG THE PEOPLE IN THE NORTHERN REGION AS IN THE REST OF THE COUNTRY. PINOCHET SAID IN COPIAPO THAT THOSE WHO TRY TO TARNISH THE HONOR OF THE ARMED FORCES AND FORCES OF ORDER ARE AGAINST CHILE. HE MADE THESE STATEMENTS DURING A PUBLIC CEREMONY AT THE ALHAMBRA THEATRE IN COPIAPO, WHERE HE WAS HONORED FOR HIS GOVERNMENT WORK IN THE PAST 16 YEARS. AFTER ENUMERATING THE ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE THIRD REGION, THE PRESIDENT REFERRED TO HIS COMPLETED MISSION.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PINOCHET] WE HAVE COMPLETED OUR MISSION BECAUSE WE HAVE BEHAVED IN KEEPING WITH THE ARMED FORCES TRADITION. WE MAINTAINED THE HONOR WE INHERITED FROM OUR HISTORIC HEROES. THOSE WHO IGNORE THE GREAT WORK CARRIED OUT BY THE NATIONAL DEFENSE INSTITUTIONS ARE BEING IRRESPONSIBLE WITH HISTORY.</p><p>THOSE WHO TRY TO TARNISH THE HONOR OF THE ARMED FORCES AND FORCES OF ORDER ARE AGAINST CHILE AND ITS ESSENTIAL INSTITUTIONS. THIS IS NOT ACCEPTABLE, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN. [APPLAUSE] [END RECORDING]</p><p>BEFORE MEETING WITH THE COPIAPO CITIZENRY, THE PRESIDENT ALSO REFERRED TO THE VIOLENT ATTACKS THAT TOOK PLACE IN SANTIAGO. HE SAID THAT THESE ATTACKS WILL NOT HINDER THE TALKS ON THE TRANSFER OF POWER. HE ADDED THAT HE DID NOT HAVE FULL REPORTS ON THE SUBVERSIVE ATTACK.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PINOCHET] I THINK IT IS NORMAL, A SITUATION IN KEEPING WITH THE DYNAMICS OF CURRENT POLITICS. I DO NOT FORESEE GREATER CONSEQUENCES TO IT. WHEN I GET BACK THERE POSSIBLY [PASSAGE INDISTINCT]</p><p>[UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] MR. PRESIDENT, THERE HAS BEEN A TERRORIST ATTACK IN THE CAPITAL, WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT IT?</p><p>[PINOCHET] I CANNOT TELL YOU, I HAVE BEEN TOLD OVER THE PHONE, BUT IT IS CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION WHICH I CANNOT REPEAT, BUT I DO NOT THINK IT IS TOO SERIOUS.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR. PRESIDENT, THAT DOES NOT BREAK AWAY [PASSAGE INDISTINCT].</p><p>[PINOCHET] ACCORDING TO WHAT I KNOW SO FAR, NOTHING HAS HAPPENED THAT COULD TURN INTO ANYTHING MORE SERIOUS. THINGS ARE GOING ALONG JUST THE SAME, WITH THE SMALL PROBLEMS THAT ARISE DAILY WITHIN THE DYNAMICS OF POLITICS, BUT AS I JUST SAID, I DO NOT THINK [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>[REPORTER] MR. PRESIDENT, DO YOU THINK THAT THIS ATTACK WAS COMMITTED BY THOSE WHO ESCAPED FROM THE SANTIAGO PRISON?</p><p>[PINOCHET] THAT IS WHAT I MEAN; I DO NOT THINK IT IS VERY IMPORTANT SINCE REACTIONS OF VIOLENCE HAVE INCREASED. IT COULD HAVE BEEN THEM. ACCORDING TO THE INFORMATION I GOT, IT COULD BE SERIOUS BUT NOT AS MUCH AS TO THINK THAT THIS IS THE END OF THE WORLD. [END RECORDING]</p><p>FINALLY, PRESIDENT PINOCHET SAID HE STILL HAD NO FURTHER REPORTS ON THE TERRORIST ATTACK IN WHICH ANOTHER CARABINERO WAS SLAIN, AND HE REGRETTED THE DISSOLUTION OF THE CNI [NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER] WHICH WAS A SPECIALIZED ORGANIZATION WELL ACQUAINTED WITH THE TERRORIST CELLS.</p><p>THE CHIEF OF STATE WILL END HIS TOUR OF NORTHERN CHILE IN SERENA. HE WILL RETURN TO SANTIAGO TODAY.</p></body></html>