<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0532"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0532"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0532</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0532 (UMASS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 29 SEP 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] IT WAS REPORTED TODAY IN BOGOTA THAT THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT HAS REJECTED AN APPEAL PRESENTED BY BEATRIZ RODRIGUEZ ZUNIGA'S LAWYER, WHO WANTED HER ARREST FOR EXTRADITION PURPOSES CANCELLED. RODRIGUEZ ZUNIGA IS SAID TO BE AN IMPORTANT MEDELLIN CARTEL CONNECTION.</p><p>RODRIGUEZ ZUNIGA WAS ARRESTED SEVERAL WEEKS AGO IN CARTAGENA AND, WITH THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH'S CONSENT, COULD BE THE SECOND PERSON EXTRADITED TO THE UNITED STATES, PART OF THE GOVERNMENT'S OFFENSIVE AGAINST THE DRUG MAFIAS THAT STARTED A MONTH AND A HALF AGO.</p><p>ON 6 SEPTEMBER THE ALLEGED "FINANCIAL HEAD" OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, EDUARDO MARTINEZ ROMERO, WAS SENT TO THE UNITED STATES AFTER WASHINGTON PRESENTED DOCUMENTATION TO HAVE HIM TRIED IN AN ATLANTA COURT.</p><p>DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTARTION INVESTIGATIONS REPORT THAT MARTINEZ ROMERO WAS A KEY PERSON IN THE "WASHING" OF APPROXIMATELY $1.2 BILLION THE MAFIA OBTAINED FROM THE COCAINE BUSINESS.</p><p>THE DRUG "BARONS" HAVE PUBLICLY THREATENED TO MURDER 10 JUDGES FOR EACH COLOMBIAN EXRADITED TO ANOTHER COUNTRY.</p><p>SINCE MARTINEZ ROMERO WAS SENT TO ATLANTA THERE HAVE BEEN HUNDREDS OF DYNAMITE ATTACKS IN DIFFERENT COLOMBIAN CITIES. THESE ATTACKS ARE THE COCAINE CARTELS' DIRECT RESPONSE TO THE GOVERNMENT'S OFFENSIVE AGAINST THEM.</p></body></html>