<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0853"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0853"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0853</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0853 (GTE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 22 NOV 89 (CANAL SEIS TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] GENERAL JUAN RAFAEL BUSTILLO, COMMANDER OF THE SALVADORAN AIR FORCE, TODAY DEFENDED THE MILITARY ACTIONS THAT THE ARMY CARRIED OUT DURING THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONA LIBERATION FRONT] OFFENSIVE. THE MILITARY CHIEF SAID THAT IF THERE HAS BEEN DRASTIC ACTION AGAINST THE FMLN REBELS, IT HAS ONLY BEEN TO DEFEND THE CIVILIANS FROM WHAT HE DESCRIBED AS A FOREIGN AGGRESSION. IN THIS WAY, GEN BUSTILLO REPLIED TO STATEMENTS BY SAN SALVADOR ARCHBISHOP ARTURO RIVERA Y DAMAS, WHO SAID THE ARMY'S RESPONSE TO THE FMLN OFFENSIVE IN SAN SALVADOR WAS EXCESSIVE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [BUSTILLO] MANY COMMENTS CAN BE MADE BUT WHAT MUST BE ASKED IS WHY DID THE REBELS SEEK THE URBAN AREAS? WHAT IS THEIR JUSTIFICATION? THAT IS THE CONDEMNABLE ASPECT. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND THE MEDIA SHOULD NOT BE CONFUSED ABOUT WHETHER WE ACTED STRONGLY AS MSGR RIVERA Y DAMAS SAID. IT IS TRUE WE HAVE BEEN STRONG AND WE WILL CONTINUE TO BE STRONG. BUT WE MUST UNDERSTAND THAT THE TERRORISTS BEGAN THE ACTION, THAT IS HOW THE PROBLEM BEGAN. THAT IS WHAT MUST BE JUDGED AND NOT HOW WE REACTED. [END RECORDING]</p><p>GEN BUSTILLO SAID THE MAIN ROLE OF THE AIR FORCE IS THE DEFENSE OF THE FATHERLAND. HE ADDED: THERE IS NO ROOM HERE FOR GUERRILLAS AND MUCH LESS FOR THOSE OF THE FMLN WHO CALL THEMSELVES DEFENDERS OF THE PEOPLE. GEN BUSTILLO SAID THIS FMLN OFFENSIVE WAS NOT PREPARED IN THE LAST FEW DAYS. INSTEAD, HE SAID, IT MUST HAVE BEEN PREPARED AT LEAST 18 MONTHS AGO. HE SAID IT HAS TAKEN TIME TO OUST THE REBELS BECAUSE THE ARMED FORCES HAVE NOT WANTED TO HARM THE CIVILIAN POPULATION, AMONG WHICH THE INSURGENTS HID.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [BUSTILLO] IT IS DIFFICULT FOR US TO ANNIHILATE THESE TERRORISTS WHEN THEY TAKE PEOPLE AS HOSTAGES. THAT IS WHY FOR YEARS THEY BEGAN INFILTRATING AND ESTABLISHING THE MEANS TO USE THE PEOPLE AS A COVER. WE CAN SEE THAT WHAT THEY HAVE BEEN DOING IN THE MOUNTAINS AND THE VILLAGES FOR THE PAST 9 YEARS, THEY HAVE NOW CARRIED OUT HERE IN SAN SALVADOR AND OTHER BIG CITIES. THEY HAVE TAKEN COVER BEHIND THE PEOPLE, AND THAT IS WHY IT HAS BEEN VERY HARD AND DIFFICULT FOR US TO ANNIHILATE THEM. WE HAD TO BE CAREFUL SO AS TO CAUSE THE LEAST HARM TO THE PEOPLE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>HE ALSO SAID THE SEIZURE OF THE SHERATON HOTEL IS AN ISOLATED INCIDENT THAT ONLY SEEKS INTERNATIONAL ATTENTION. BUSTILLO SAID A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION HAS JUST BEEN A GAME FOR THE REBELS SO NO ONE IN EL SALVADOR SHOULD CONSIDER IT AS A SOLUTION TO A 10-YEAR-OLD WAR THAT HAS LEFT MORE THAN 60,000 DEAD.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [BUSTILLO] THE DIALOGUE AND A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION HAVE BEEN A TACTIC USED BY THE FMLN FOR SEVERAL YEARS. WE CAN NOW CLEARLY SEE THAT NEITHER THE PEOPLE, ARMED FORCES, NOR THE POLITICIANS SHOULD CONSIDER THEM AS AN ALTERNATIVE. IT CAN BE CLEARLY SEEN THAT ALL THIS TIME DURING WHICH SOME INDIVIDUALS OF THIS ADMINISTRATION AND THE PREVIOUS ADMINISTRATION HAD BEEN SEEKING A SOLUTION THROUGH DIALOGUE, THE FMLN HAD JUST BEEN PREPARING FOR THIS OFFENSIVE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>ASKED WHAT PLANS THE ARMED FORCES HAVE IN THE FACE OF ANOTHER FMLN OFFENSIVE, THE GENERAL WAS EMPHATIC:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [BUSTILLO] ANNIHILATE THEM. ANNIHILATE THEM. THAT IS THE ONLY THING WE CAN DO. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE GENERAL MADE THESE STATEMENTS TO THIS NEWSCAST AFTER HE LISTED THE WEAPONS THAT WERE SEIZED AND THE CASUALTIES SUSTAINED BY THE ARMY. BUSTILLO SAID FOUR OFFICERS OF THE PARATROOPERS BATTALION WERE KILLED AND SEVERAL WERE WOUNDED. HE SAID 20 SOLDIERS DIED IN THE MILITARY ACTIONS [TIME FRAME NOT SPECIFIED].</p></body></html>