<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0032"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0032"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0032</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0032 (NOSC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 13 JAN 90 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] REGARDING THE ASSASSINATION OF HECTOR OQUELI COLINDRES, LEADER OF THE NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT AND THE DEMOCRATIC CONVERGENCE AND SECRETARY FOR LATIN AMERICA OF THE SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL, IN GUATEMALA ON 12 JANUARY, WE STATE:</p><p>1. WE BLAME ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE], THE REGIME OF [PRESIDENT ALFREDO] CRISTIANI AND [ARENA LEADER ROBERTO] D'AUBUISSON, AND ITS ARMED FORCES FOR THIS DETESTABLE ASSASSINATION. THE LINKS BETWEEN D'AUBUISSON'S ARENA PARTY AND THE GUATEMALAN NATIONAL LIBERATION MOVEMENT OF MARIO SANDOVAL ARE WELL KNOWN. BOTH OPPOSE EVERY EFFORT TO BRING PEACE TO THE REGION.</p><p>2. THIS NEW CRIME AND THE RECENT EVENTS CONCERNING THE CASE OF THE JESUITS, WHICH SHOW THAT THE MASTERMINDS WILL NOT BE PUNISHED, FORCES US TO REVIEW OUR DIALOGUE OFFER BECAUSE WE ARE NOT INTERESTED IN HELPING THE FASCIST REGIME WASH ITS FACE TO OBTAIN U.S. MILITARY AID AND TO PROCEED WITH ITS PLAN TO ANNIHILATE EVERY TYPE OF OPPOSITION.</p><p>3. THE ASSASSINATION OF DR OQUELI AND HIS COMPANION, GILDA FLORES, THE EXTENSION OF THE STATE OF THE SIEGE, AND THE FACT THAT NOTHING INDICATES THAT THERE WILL BE PUNISHMENT FOR THE MASTERMINDS OF THE MASSACRE OF 16 NOVEMBER SHOW THAT CRISTIANI'S ANNOUNCEMENT TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THE LATTER CASE IS ONLY A FARCE TO OBTAIN U.S. AID AND TO PROCEED WITH THE SLAUGHTER OF OPPOSITION MEMBERS.</p><p>4. AS THOSE EVENTS SHOW, THE POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE CONFICT REQUIRES A PURGE OF THE ARMED FORCES, DEMOCRATIZATION, AND SELF-DETERMINATION. THERE CAN BE NO DIALOGUE AMID STATE TERRORISM, A STATE OF SIEGE, AND GENERAL TRAMPLING ON HUMAN RIGHTS. UNDER THE STATE OF SIEGE, THE REGIME GIVES ITSELF THE RIGHT TO CARRY OUT A GENERAL REPRESSION. THEREFORE, WE CALL ON ALL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL FORCES TO STRUGGLE FOR ITS ABROGATION.</p><p>5. THE 15 DECEMBER 1989 UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY RESOLUTION DEMANDING RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND DEMOCRATIC FREEDOMS MUST BE UNCONDITIONALLY IMPLEMENTED IN OUR COUNTRY TO CREATE AN ATMOSPHERE AND CONDITIONS FAVORABLE TO A POLITICAL SOLUTION.</p><p>[SIGNED] FMLN GENERAL COMMAND</p><p>[DATED] EL SALVADOR, 13 JANUARY 1990</p></body></html>