<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1238"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1238"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1238</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1238 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [INTERVIEW WITH PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY MODERATOR AND REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [CRISTIANI] THE IMPORTANT THING IS THAT THIS IS THE GOVERNMENT'S CLARIFICATION, WHICH REPRESENTS THE GOVERNMENT'S STAND.</p><p>[MODERATOR] DAVID RIVAS OF AFP.</p><p>[RIVAS] MR. PRESIDENT, YOUR REPLIES TO PREVIOUS QUESTIONS HAVE ALREADY ANSWERED MY FIRST QUESTION. I WOULD LIKE TO ASK YOU SOMETHING, HOWEVER. NOW THAT THE DIALOGUE PROCESS IS ABOUT TO START, THE TWO SIDES HAVE APPARENTLY HARDENED THEIR POSITIONS. THE FMLN COMMANDERS HAVE SAID THAT, TO END THE WAR IN EL SALVADOR, THERE MUST BE A SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEMS OF INJUSTICE AND LACK OF DEMOCRACY. THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE, IN TURN, SAID RECENTLY THAT THE FMLN MUST RETURN TO CIVILIAN LIFE AND THAT THERE IS NO NEED TO NEGOTIATE. I WOULD LIKE TO KNOW WHAT WILL BE NEGOTIATED AND WHAT WILL BE DONE TO END THE WAR THROUGH A DIALOGUE WITH THE FMLN.</p><p>[CRISTIANI] I AM SURPRISED BY THE REMARKS THAT YOU ARE ATTRIBUTING TO DR. SANTAMARIA, BECAUSE HE IS VERY WELL INFORMED ABOUT WHAT HAS HAPPENED SO FAR. HE IS VERY MUCH AWARE THAT THERE IS POINT TWO OF THE GENEVA AGREEMENT, WHICH NOTES THAT POLITICAL AGREEMENTS MUST BE REACHED IN ORDER TO PUT AN END TO ARMED CONFRONTATION AND THE VIOLENCE THAT IS AFFECTING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. SUBSEQUENTLY, THERE WILL BE A PROCESS FOR DISARMAMENT AND DEMOBILIZATION, REFERRED TO AS THE TOTAL SUSPENSION OF HOSTILITIES IN THE AGREEMENT. I BELIEVE THAT IT IS A MATTER OF REACHING AGREEMENTS. WE, AS A GOVERNMENT, ARE INVOLVED IN THIS BECAUSE WE SEE THE SUFFERING OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. WE BELIEVE THAT IT IS NOT FAIR FOR THEM TO LIVE IN A CLIMATE OF VIOLENCE IN WHICH THERE ARE SO MANY KILLED, SO MUCH DESTRUCTION, AND SO MANY PROBLEMS.</p><p>AS A GOVERNMENT, WE HAVE ALWAYS ASKED: WHAT ARE THE PROBLEMS BARRING THEIR RETURNING TO CIVILIAN LIFE? THEY ARE THE ONLY GROUP THAT HAS NOT JOINED THE SALVADORAN DEMOCRATIC PROCESS. WHAT DO THEY WANT? LET US SEE IF THERE IS ANYTHING REASONABLE THAT CAN BE DONE. THE POLITICAL PARTIES HAVE EXPRESSED WILLINGNESS TO CONSIDER ALL THAT COULD FOSTER OR CONSOLIDATE THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS IN OUR COUNTRY. WE BELIEVE THAT THERE WILL BE NO PROBLEMS. I CANNOT SEE ANY HARDENING BY THE GOVERNMENT. I BELIEVE WE HAVE BEEN FLEXIBLE. WE HAVE SAID THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN IMMEDIATELY ACCEPTING AS ITS OWN ANY CONSENSUS REACHED BY THE PARTIES. IN OTHER WORDS, AT LEAST YOUR REMARK ON THE GOVERNMENT IS NOT TRUE. I REPEAT, PERHAPS IN THE STYLE OF THE PREVIOUS QUESTION, THAT WE DO NOT WANT TO BE BIASED. IN DUE TIME, WE WILL SEE WHETHER THE FMLN HAS OR HAS NOT BEEN INFLEXIBLE OR HARDENED OR WHATEVER. IT WILL DEPEND ON WHETHER THE FMLN'S PROPOSALS ARE REASONABLE OR NOT.</p><p>[MODERATOR] PABLO YACU OF [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>[YACU] MR. PRESIDENT, CONCERNING THE ECONOMY, SOME OF THE OPPOSITION POLITICIANS I TALKED WITH OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS HAVE TOLD ME THAT THEY ARE A LITTLE CONCERNED. THEY THINK THAT, BECAUSE DIFFICULTIES HAVE ARISEN, BECAUSE THERE IS A NEW SITUATION IN THE COUNTRY, AND BECAUSE THE VOLUME OF THE U.S. AID HAS DIMINISHED, THE COUNTRY IS RAPIDLY TAKING STEPS THAT OTHER LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES HAVE ALREADY TAKEN, TO MEET WITH THE SO-CALLED CONSULTING GROUP FORMED BY THE LEADING WORLD CREDIT INSTITUTIONS AND REQUEST LARGE LOANS TO STABILIZE THE BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. THESE POLITICIANS TOLD ME THAT THEY ARE CONCERNED BECAUSE THIS WOULD IMPOSE A HEAVY BURDEN ON THE NEW GOVERNMENT, WHICH WOULD ASSUME OFFICE AFTER 1994.</p><p>[CRISTIANI] WELL, I THINK THE OPPOSITION POLITICIANS SHOULD TRY TO UNDERSTAND THAT MANY OF THE MEASURES, WHICH CERTAINLY ENTAIL A SACRIFICE FOR THE VARIOUS NATIONAL SECTORS, ARE RESPONSIBLY TAKEN BECAUSE OF THE COUNTRY'S ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL PROBLEMS. MANY PEOPLE WILL SAY IT IS NOT NECESSARY TO DO THIS OR THAT. I WOULD ONLY LOOK AT WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO OTHER COUNTRIES WHICH, EVEN WITHOUT THE DESTRUCTION AND VIOLENCE CAUSED BY AN IRREGULAR FORCE, SUCH AS THE FMLN, HAVE EXPERIENCED MUCH MORE SERIOUS PROBLEMS THAN THOSE ENCOUNTERED BY EL SALVADOR AT PRESENT. WE WOULD ALSO ENCOUNTER THOSE PROBLEMS IF WE FAIL TO TAKE MEASURES. NEARBY IS NICARAGUA, THE INFLATION RATE OF WHICH HAS REACHED 1,700 PERCENT, ITS FOREIGN DEBT IS ENORMOUS, AND IT IS IMMERSED IN DRAMATIC PROBLEMS. NO MEASURES WERE TAKEN IN DUE TIME IN BRAZIL AND ARGENTINA, ALTHOUGH THESE MEASURES WERE PAINFUL. IF THEY ARE NOT TAKEN ON TIME, THEY WILL BE MUCH MORE PAINFUL LATER, BECAUSE EVENTUALLY SOMETHING WILL HAVE TO BE DONE TO CHECK THE ECONOMIC CRISIS THAT HAS BEEN CREATED. AT THIS TIME, WE ARE TRYING TO STABILIZE THE ECONOMY TO START ITS EFFECTIVE RECOVERY. IT IS BASED ON THIS RECOVERY THAT WE WILL AVOID FOREIGN INDEBTEDNESS, WHICH FOR MANY OTHER COUNTRIES HAS BEEN AN EASY WAY OUT AND AN ALTERNATIVE, WHEN THEY SHOULD HAVE ACTED RESPONSIBLY CONCERNING ECONOMIC PROBLEMS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>