<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0171"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0171"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SOFIA (BULGARIA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0171</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0171 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SOFIA (BULGARIA), 12 APR 89 (RABOTNICHESKO DELO) -- [INTERVIEW WITH MANUEL CEPEDA, MEMBER OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF COLOMBIA, BY DETELIN SERTOV, REPRESENTATIVE OF THE RABOTNICHESKO DELO EDITORIAL BOARD] [TEXT] [SERTOV] POLITICAL LIFE IN COLOMBIA IS STILL LINKED WITH VIOLENCE.....</p><p>[CEPEDA] COLOMBIA IS EXPERIENCING AN EXTREMELY SEVERE POLITICAL AND INSTITUTIONAL CRISIS, CAUSED BY THE INCOMPATIBILITY BETWEEN THE FAST DEVELOPING PRODUCTIVE FORCES AND THE EXISTING POLITICAL SETUP. FOR EXAMPLE, LAST YEAR COLOMBIA'S ECONOMIC GROWTH WAS 4.5 PERCENT. HOWEVER, POLITICAL LIFE CONTINUES TO BE DOMINATED BY THE TWO OLD PARTIES -- THE LIBERALS AND THE CONSERVATIVES, WHO MAINTAIN A MERELY FORMAL DEMOCRACY. WE SHOULD NOT FORGET COLOMBIA'S STRATEGIC POSITION: IT FORMS A BRIDGE BETWEEN CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA. ALL EVENTS IN COLOMBIA AFFECT THE NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES.</p><p>PRECISELY BECAUSE OF THIS, THE SO-CALLED "SANTA FE-2" DOCUMENT, DRAWN UP BY EXTREME RIGHT-WING U.S. POLITICIANS, CONTAINS A PLAN TO APPLY PRESSURE IN COLOMBIA AND, MORE SPECIFICALLY, TO EXPAND THE SO-CALLED LOW-INTENSITY CONFLICT, ONE OF WHOSE MANIFESTATIONS IS THE SO-CALLED "DIRTY WAR" IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>ACCORDINGLY, THE VIOLENCE IN COLOMBIA IS CAUSED BY BOTH INTERNAL FACTORS -- THE CRISIS OF THE INSTITUTIONS -- AND EXTERNAL ONES, NAMELY THE POLICIES OF THE MOST REACTIONARY CIRCLES IN THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>[SERTOV] CAN ONE EXPECT THE PEACE SETTLEMENT TO BE FULFILLED UNDER THESE CONDITIONS?</p><p>[CEPEDA] THIS IS THE AIM OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF COLOMBIA [PCC]. AT OUR RECENT 15TH CONGRESS, WE MADE A DETAILED ANALYSIS OF THE SITUATION AND CONCLUDED THAT THE CONFLICT IN COLOMBIA MUST BE SETTLED BY POLITICAL MEANS. THE PCC RAISED THE QUESTION OF REMOVING THE SIEGE SITUATION THAT, WITH A FEW INTERRUPTIONS, HAS BEEN MAINTAINED FOR SEVERAL DECADES, AND OF DISBANDING THE PARAMILITARY GROUPS (ACCORDING TO THE MINISTER OF INTERNAL AFFAIRS, ABOUT 140 SUCH GROUPS ARE OPERATING). THESE GROUPS OWE THEIR VERY EXISTENCE TO THE SUPPORT GIVEN BY MILITARY CIRCLES AND THE CLAN CHIEFS TO THE TRADE IN NARCOTICS. (I WILL ADD IN PARENTHESES THAT THIS IS THE REASON FOR THE USE OF THE TERM "NARCOMILITARISM" IN COLOMBIA.) ONE OF THE PCC'S DEMANDS IS THAT THE ARMY SHOULD BE PURGED OF FASCIST ELEMENTS AND THAT A CIVILIAN SHOULD BE PUT IN CHARGE OF THE MINISTRY OF DEFENSE. THE PARTY ALSO RAISED THE QUESTION OF MAKING A START ON THE NECESSARY DEMOCRATIC REFORMS, BUT THE GOVERNMENT PAYS NO HEED TO OUR DEMANDS.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT RECENTLY REACHED AN AGREEMENT WITH "M-19," ONE OF THE PARTISAN GROUPINGS IN THE COUNTRY, BUT DID NOT ACCEPT ANY COMMITMENTS IN PRACTICE. ACCORDINGLY, THERE ARE SOME DOUBTS OVER HOW THE LIVES OF THE PARTISAN LEADERS WILL BE SUBSEQUENTLY GUARANTEED. THE LARGEST PARTISAN GROUP -- THE REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA -- IS DEMANDING THAT THE GOVERNMENT TAKE SERIOUS STEPS TO LIMIT THE PARAMILITARY GROUPS, IN ORDER TO CONCLUDE A TRUCE.</p><p>[SERTOV] CLEARLY, IT WILL NOT BE EASY TO ACHIEVE PEACE IN COLOMBIA.</p><p>[CEPEDA] AT THE MOMENT, PEACE SUPPORTERS IN COLOMBIA ARE FORMING A BROAD FRONT, WHICH IN PRACTICE HAS AN ANTIFASCIST ORIENTATION. PEACE DEPENDS ON HOW FAR THIS FRONT WILL SUCCEED IN EXPANDING, HOW THE CONTRADICTIONS WITHIN THE GOVERNMENT ITSELF REGARDING THE PARAMILITARY GROUPS WILL DEEPEN, AND ON WHETHER WE WILL SUCCEED IN ISOLATING THEM. WE ARE OPTIMISTS, BUT ALSO HAVE A GREAT NEED OF INTERNATIONAL SOLIDARITY.</p><p>[SERTOV] HOW DO YOU ASSESS THE POLITICAL PROSPECTS FOR THE UNITED LEFT IN YOUR COUNTRY?</p><p>[CEPEDA] THE LEFT FORCES IN COLOMBIA ARE UNITED IN THE PATRIOTIC UNION THAT WAS CREATED 4 YEARS AGO. ITS AIM IS TO ACHIEVE NATIONAL RECONCILIATION IN OUR COUNTRY. HOWEVER, THE UNION IMMEDIATELY BECAME A TARGET OF THE ORGANIZERS OF THE "DIRTY WAR." HUNDREDS OF ITS LEADERS WERE BEATEN UP, MANY OF WHOM WERE PCC MEMBERS. SO FAR, OVER 1,000 PEOPLE HAVE DIED, INCLUDING JAIME PARDO LEAL, LEADER OF THE PATRIOTIC UNION, DEPUTY CHAIRMAN JOSE ANTEGUERA, AND OTHERS. THREATS CONTINUE TO BE MADE AGAINST THE UNION AND AGAINST THE PCC. ALL MEMBERS OF THE PCC LEADERSHIP HAVE RECEIVED DEATH THREATS. THE SAME ALSO APPLIES TO BERNARDO JARAMILLO, THE PRESENT LEADER OF THE UNION, GILBERTO VIEIRA, SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE PCC CENTRAL COMMITTEE, AND OTHERS.</p><p>ON 27 FEBRUARY COMRADE FORERO [NAME AS TRANSLITERATED], PCC SECRETARY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL MATTERS, WAS KILLED. HIS WIFE AND COMRADES SOTELO AND SOTOMAYOR ALSO DIED IN THE ATROCITY. NEXT DAY, WE HAD A MEETING WITH VIRGILIO BARCO, PRESIDENT OF COLOMBIA. HE PROMISES TO TAKE SPEEDY MEASURES AGAINST THE PARAMILITARY GROUPS. HOWEVER, ONLY 4 DAYS LATER, ANTEGUERA, THE FORMER LEADER OF THE UNION OF COMMUNIST YOUTH, WAS KILLED AT BOGOTA AIRPORT. SENATOR ERNESTO PISANO, ONE OF THE LIBERAL PARTY CANDIDATES FOR THE PRESIDENCY, WAS SERIOUSLY INJURED AT THE SAME TIME. MANY MEMBERS OF THE MILITARY WERE PRESENT AT THE AIRPORT ON THAT DAY, AS WELL AS THE POLICE CHIEF OF THE CAPITAL, YET ONLY ONE OF THE MURDERERS WAS KILLED, WHILE THE REST ESCAPED. THIS IS WHY WE TOLD PRESIDENT BARCO THAT WE HAD SERIOUS DOUBTS ABOUT THE ARMY'S ROLE IN THIS ASSASSINATION.</p><p>NEXT YEAR, PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS AND ELECTIONS OF THE LEGISLATIVE BODIES ARE DUE TO TAKE PLACE IN COLOMBIA. THE PCC AND THE PATRIOTIC UNION WANT TO TAKE PART IN THEM, BUT WE HAVE WARNED THE LEADERS OF THE REPUBLIC THAT UNLESS THE "DIRTY WAR" IS ENDED, WE WILL EXPOSE THE SITUATION IN COLOMBIA TO THE WORLD AND REGARD THE ELECTION RESULTS AS ILLEGAL. DESPITE EVERYTHING, WE CONSIDER THAT THE PATRIOTIC UNION HAS A PROMISING FUTURE, BECAUSE ITS AIMS ARE SUPPORTED BY THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE.</p></body></html>