<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0177"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0177"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0177</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0177 (ADS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 18 APRIL 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] MULTI-PARTY TALKS ON INCORPORATING COLOMBIA'S M-19 REBEL GROUP INTO CIVILIAN LIFE WOUND UP TUESDAY WITH AGREEMENT THAT THE PROCESS MUST BE COMPLETED BY JUNE 30.</p><p>REPRESENTATIVES OF THE GOVERNMENT, POLITICAL PARTIES AND THE M- 19 GROUP, WHICH ACCEPTED A TRUCE LAST MONTH AFTER 16 YEARS OF FIGHTING, REACHED THE ACCORD AT A "WORKING SESSION" AT THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.</p><p>NO OFFICIAL COMMUNIQUE WAS RELEASED, BUT SOURCES CLOSE TO THE TALKS SAID THE PARTIES HAD AGREED TO CONTINUE BI-WEEKLY PARLEYS AND TO CREATE A GENERAL SECRETARIAT COMPRISING REPRESENTATIVES OF EACH OF THE DELEGATIONS.</p><p>THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH WAS NAMED AS GUARANTOR OF ANY FINAL AGREEMENT.</p><p>THE GUERRILLA GROUP SIGNED ITS TRUCE MARCH 18 UNDER A PEACE PLAN ANNOUNCED IN SEPTEMBER BY PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO, WHO HAS SAID REBEL LEADERS WOULD BE PARDONED.</p><p>THE TALKS HAVE YET TO BROACH THE THORNY SUBJECT OF THE 2,500- STRONG GROUP'S HANDING OVER ITS ARMS.</p><p>THE GUERRILLA GROUP WAS FORMED IN SEPTEMBER 1973 AS A PROTEST AGAINST WHAT IT SAID WAS ELECTORAL FRAUD COMMITTED BY THEN- STRONGMAN GUSTAVO ROJAS PINILLA. ITS ORIGINAL MEMBERS WERE DISSIDENT GUERRILLAS FROM OTHER GROUPS, PROFESSIONALS, WORKERS, STUDENTS AND FORMER SOLDIERS.</p><p>IN JANUARY 1974, THE REBEL GROUP MADE HEADLINES BY STEALING A SWORD THAT HAD BELONGED TO SIMON BOLIVAR -- WHO LED THE WARS OF INDEPENDENCE IN MOST OF NORTHERN SOUTH AMERICA -- WHICH THEY PROMISED TO USE TO "REDEEM" THE COUNTRY.</p><p>M-19'S MOST SPECTACULAR OPERATION WAS ITS 1985 TAKEOVER OF THE PALACE OF JUSTICE IN BOGOTA. IN THE MILITARY OPERATION TO RETAKE THE BUILDING, MORE THAN 100 PEOPLE DIED, INCLUDING SIX TOP JUDGES AS WELL AS VISITORS, EMPLOYEES AND REBELS.</p><p>THE REBELS WERE REPORTEDLY HIRED BY DRUG KINGPINS TO STORM THE BUILDING AND DESTROY DOCUMENTS TO BE USED IN PROCEEDINGS TO EXTRADITE THE DRUG LORDS TO THE UNITED STATES.</p></body></html>