<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0020"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0020"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0020</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0020 (NOSC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 11 JAN 90 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN)] [TEXT] REGARDING THE JESUITS' CASE, THE FMLN STATES THAT:</p><p>1. THE FMLN AND SEVERAL SECTORS, INCLUDING YOUNG ARMED FORCES OFFICERS, WERE RIGHT IN POINTING TO THE ARMY AS BEING RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS HORRIBLE CRIME. THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE ARMED INSTITUTION FOR THIS CASE AND THE CASES INVOLVING FENASTRAS [SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION], MONSIGNOR ROMERO, THE NUNS, AND THE U.S. AGRARIAN EXPERTS, AS WELL AS FOR THE BOMBINGS IN THE CITIES AND MASSACRES IN THE RURAL SECTOR, SHOW THAT WE WERE RIGHT WHEN WE MENTIONED IN OUR LAST PEACE PROPOSAL THE NEED TO CLEAN UP THE ARMY AND REFORM THE JUDICIAL SYSTEM.</p><p>2. TO ADVANCE IN THE COUNTRY'S DEMOCRATIZATION, IT IS NOT ENOUGH TO SOLVE THIS CASE. THE OTHER CASES NEED TO BE SOLVED AND THOSE GUILTY FOR THEM SHOULD BE PUNISHED. THE ESTABLISHMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES CANNOT REMAIN AT THE LEVEL OF OFFICERS AND TROOPS WHO ONLY CARRIED OUT ORDERS. MOST IMPORTANT IS TO ESTABLISH RESPONSIBILITY AMONG HIGHER-RANKING OFFICERS BECAUSE A DECISION OF THIS SORT COULD NOT BE BEYOND THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE TOP COMMAND.</p><p>3. IT IS ALSO NECESSARY TO COMPLY WITH THE ESQUIPULAS II AGREEMENTS CONCERNING DEMOCRATIZATION; REFORMING THE JUDICIAL SYSTEM; LIFTING THE STATE OF EMERGENCY; REESTABLISHING FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION, MOBILIZATION, AND ORGANIZATION; RELEASING THE MORE THAN 3,000 POLITICAL PRISONERS; AND STOPPING THE REPRESSION AGAINST THE CHURCH AND OTHER SECTORS.</p><p>4. THE ANNOUNCEMENT BY CRISTIANI IS AN EFFORT TO RESOLVE COMPLICATED DISCUSSIONS ON U.S. AID FOR EL SALVADOR AND TO CONTINUE TO BENEFIT FROM THIS AID TO MAINTAIN THE WAR. IT WOULD BE A MISTAKE TO INCREASE AID TO THE SALVADORAN ARMY BECAUSE OF THIS ANNOUNCEMENT OR BECAUSE THE CASE MAY BE RESOLVED. SUCH AID WOULD LEAVE OPEN THE POSSIBILITY OF SEEING A CASE LIKE THAT OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS HAPPENING AGAIN. THE BEST WAY TO CONTRIBUTE TO A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION IS TO CEASE AID. WE APPEAL TO THE U.S. CONGRESS TO MAKE THIS DECISION. IF THIS IS DONE, THE FMLN WOULD COMMIT ITSELF TO MAKING EFFORTS TO REACH AN IMMEDIATE CEASEFIRE.</p><p>5. FAVORABLE CONDITIONS FOR NEGOTIATIONS DEPEND ON JUSTICE-MAKING PROGRESS. IF THE ARMY IS THOROUGHLY PURGED BECAUSE OF THIS CASE, PEACE COULD BE REACHED EARLIER.</p><p>6. TO CONTRIBUTE TOWARD A PROMPT PEACE, WE WILL ASK THE OFFICE OF THE UN SECRETARY GENERAL TO MEDIATE. WE URGE THE GOVERNMENT TO JOINTLY MEET WITH US AND WITH MR JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR WITHIN THE NEXT 30 DAYS TO RENEW THE DIALOGUE-NEGOTIATION PROCESS.</p><p>7. THE FMLN WILL BE WATCHING HOW THE SITUATION DEVELOPS. IT URGES NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL FORCES TO EXERT PRESSURE SO THAT THE INVESTIGATION PROCESS DOES NOT END WITH A DECLARATION OF INTENTION OR WITH STATEMENTS BLAMING LOW-RANKING SOLDIERS TO PROTECT THOSE WHO ARE MOST RESPONSIBLE. THIS WOULD PUSH AWAY THE POSSIBILTIY OF A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT.</p><p>[SIGNED] FMLN GENERAL COMMAND: COMMANDERS SALVADOR SANCHEZ, SHAFICK JORGE HANDAL, EDUARDO SANCHO, JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS, AND FRANCISCO JOVEL.</p></body></html>