<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0872"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0872"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0872</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0872 (GTE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 26 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THIS AIRCRAFT, I REPEAT, WAS CARRYING VERY SOPHISTICATED ARMAMENTS. IT CARRIED 24 SOVIET-MADE SURFACE-TO-AIR-MISSILES, ONE 75-MM RECOILLESS CANNON, GRENADES FOR THAT CANNON, AND IT ALSO HAD DOCUMENTS AND MANUALS EXPLAINING ITS USAGE.</p><p>WE CAN NO LONGER CONTINUE DOING NOTHING IN VIEW OF THIS GENOCIDAL, INTERVENTIONIST ACTION, AND MORE THAN ANYTHING, A TRAITOROUS ACTION BY DANIEL ORTEGA. THAT IS WHY WE RESOLVED ON 25 NOVEMBER, SALVADORAN PEOPLE, TO MAKE THE PROPER CHARGES AGAINST ORTEGA AND HIS GOVERNMENT BEFORE THE UN SECURITY COUNCIL AND THE OAS SECURITY COUNCIL.</p><p>SECOND, WE WILL SUSPEND RELATIONS, BE THEY DIPLOMATIC, COMMERCIAL, OR OF ANY SORT WITH NICARAGUA. WE WILL WITHDRAW OUR MISSION FROM NICARAGUA.</p><p>THIRD, AT THE NEXT PRESIDENTIAL SUMMIT, EL SALVADOR WILL NOT GO TO NICARAGUA. RIGHT NOW, IT WILL ASK THE OTHER THREE DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTS OF THE AREA TO TRANSFER THE SITE OF THAT MEETING TO ANOTHER FRATERNAL CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRY. WE WILL DEMAND THERE, BEFORE THE CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES THAT THEY TRULY HONOR THE ESQUIPULAS PACT AND CONDEMN DANIEL ORTEGA FOR SUPPORTING THE FMLN</p><p>WE CAN APPRECIATE, VERY FRANKLY, WHAT THE FMLN IS. THEY ARE NOTHING MORE THAN THE PUPPETS OF THE COMMUNIST AGGRESSION. MR CASTRO AND MR ORTEGA ARE RESISTING ALL OF THE CHANGES THAT ARE TAKING PLACE IN THE SOVIET UNION AND IN ALL OF THE COUNTRIES BEHIND THE IRON CURTAIN WHICH ARE ATTEMPTING TO DEMOCRATIZE THEMSELVES AND GIVE THEIR PEOPLE LIBERTY. THEY ARE THE ONLY TWO WHO SEEK TO CONTINUE TO REMAIN IN POWER THROUGH THE RIFLE AND BY WAR.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WE CANNOT PERMIT OUR COUNTRY, OUR SMALL EL SALVADOR, OR OUR NOBLE SALVADORAN PEOPLE TO BE THE VICTIMS OF THAT COMMUNIST AGGRESSION WHICH DANIEL ORTEGA AND FIDEL CASTRO SEEK TO LAUNCH.</p><p>IN THAT SENSE, SALVADORAN PEOPLE, IN VIEW OF THIS NEW SITUATION, WE WANT YOU TO REFLECT ON THAT ARTIFICIAL CEASE-FIRE WHICH THE FMLN LAUNCHED A FEW DAYS AGO. WHAT IS THE FMLN UP TO WITH THAT CEASE-FIRE? IT MADE THAT PROPOSAL AFTER IT WAS REMOVED FROM THE CITY THAT IT HAD ATTACKED. THE PEOPLE WERE RESUMING THEIR NORMAL ACTIVITIES AND EVERYTHING WAS UNDER THE CONTROL OF THE ARMED FORCES IN THOSE AREAS. WHY DID THEY CALL FOR A CEASE-FIRE WHEN THEY HAD ALREADY BEEN DEFEATED IN THE OFFENSIVE BY THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WHO HAD REPUDIATED THEIR TERRORIST ACTIONS? THEY HAD NO REAL OBJECTIVE AHEAD, OTHER THAN TO CONTINUE TO DESTROY, TO ASSASSINATE, AND TO CONTINUE TO GENERATE TERRORIST ACTIONS HERE IN OUR COUNTRY.</p><p>THEREFORE, THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT CANNOT PERMIT ITSELF TO FALL INTO ANOTHER TRAP OF THE FMLN. IF THEY WENT TO MEXICO AND COSTA RICA WITH A SINCERE DESIRE FOR PEACE, AS THEY TRIED TO MAKE US BELIEVE, WE REALIZE TODAY THAT THOSE ACTIONS WERE JUST ANOTHER FARCE. THIS AGGRESSION WAS NOT PLANNED IN 2 OR 3 DAYS. THIS AGGRESSION HAD BEEN PLANNED SEVERAL MONTHS BACK. KNOWING THAT THEY WERE GOING TO ATTACK THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, THEY HAD THE GALL TO ATTEND AND MAKE THE ENTIRE WORLD BELIEVE THAT THEY REALLY WANTED PEACE. THEREFORE, WE CANNOT, I REPEAT SALVADORAN PEOPLE, FALL INTO ANOTHER TRAP OF THE FMLN. THEY HAVE NO RIGHT TO DEMAND TERRITORIAL RIGHTS IN OUR COUNTRY WHEN THEY ARE A BAND OF TERRORISTS AND ARE PUPPETS OF ORTEGA AND CASTRO. LET US SEE IF THE PEOPLE WHO RECEIVE SUPPORT, AS THEY ARE, WILL OWE ORTEGA AND CASTRO FAVORS. IF THEY SUCCEED, THEY WILL OWE LOYALTY NOT TO THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, BUT TO COMMUNIST DICTATORS SUCH AS DANIEL ORTEGA AND FIDEL CASTRO. THAT IS WHY THE GOVERNMENT HAS ESTABLSIHED A CLEAR POSITION. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>