<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0002"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0002"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0002</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0002 (NOSC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 4 JAN 90 -- [TEXT] ACCORDING TO STATEMENTS MADE BY A SALVADORAN OFFICER TODAY, DESPITE THE CHANGE IN THE LEADERSHIP OF THE SALVADORAN AIR FORCE, THE AIR FORCE WILL CONTINUE ITS NORMAL ACTIVITIES.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN AIR FORCE MAINTAINS THE SAME OPERATIONAL LEVEL IT HAS HAD FOR THE LAST 10 YEARS, DESPITE THE REMOVAL OF ITS TOP COMMANDER, JAUN RAFAEL BUSTILLOS, THIS WEEK.</p><p>PARATROOPER BATTALION COMMANDER MAJOR RENE RODRIGUEZ HURTADO SAID TODAY THAT THE AIR FORCE WILL CONTINUE TO OBEY THE ORDERS OF THE GENERAL STAFF AND TO MAINTAIN A SIMILAR OPERATIONAL LEVEL.</p><p>[RODRIGUEZ] "WE KNOW GENERAL VILLAMARIONA [NEW AIR FORCE COMMANDER] ENOUGH TO KNOW THAT WE WILL CONTINUE WITH OUR BATTALION'S ATTACKS ON ALL THE TERRORIST CRIMINALS' REDOUBTS. WE DEPEND DIRECTLY ON THE GENERAL STAFF, SINCE IT IS THE STRATEGIC HEAD OF THE ENTIRE ARMY. THE GENERAL STAFF GIVES US OUR ORDERS TO LAUNCH OUR OPERATIONS."</p><p>MAJOR RODRIGUEZ HURTADO TODAY DENIED THAT SALVADORAN AIR FORCE PLANES HAD ENTERED NICARAGUAN TERRITORY AS THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT SAID LAST WEEK. MAJ RODRIGUEZ HURTADO SAID THAT SALVADORAN AIR FORCE PLANES HAVE NEVER ENTERED THE NEIGHBORING TERITORY OF NICARAGUA.</p><p>[RODRIGUEZ] "I CAN TELL YOU THAT THOSE WERE NEITHER SALVADORAN NOR HONDURAN PLANES. IN MY OPINION, THE SANDINISTS WANT TO INVENT AN EXCUSE TO CONTINUE HELPING THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT]. OURS AND THE HONDURAN PLANES ARE SMALL PLANES. I DO NOT THINK THAT HONDURAN PLANES ENTERED NICARAGUAN TERRITORY. THOSE COMMUNISTS ARE TRYING TO INVENT AN EXCUSE TO CONTINUE HELPING THE FMLN TERRORIST CRIMINALS."</p><p>MAJ. RODRIGUEZ MADE THESE STATEMENTS DURING THE PRESENTATION OF A NUMBER OF WEAPONS CONFISCATED BY THE PARATROOPERS BATTALION ON 4 JANUARY.</p><p>[RODRIGUEZ] "HERE WE HAVE 12 RIFLES, 11 AR-15 RIFLES AND 1 AK-47 RIFLE; 4,000 CARTRIDGES, OF WHICH 2,000 ARE FOR M-16 MACHINE GUNS AND 2,000 FOR AK-47 RIFLES; 36 CARTRIDGES OF AN UNKNOWN CALIBER-- MILITARY INTELLIGENCE HAS ALREADY BEEN INFORMED OF THIS DISCOVERY; AND I (ICON) RADIO OF THE TYPE USED BY THE LEADERS OF THE TERRORIST GROUPS."</p><p>THE WEAPONS WERE FOUND AT EL NISPERO CREEK NEAR THE SACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD. AMONG THE CONFISCATED WEAPONS WERE CARTRIDGES OF UNKNOWN MAKE. THIS IS APPPARENTLY THE FIRST TIME THE ARMY HAS FOUND THAT TYPE OF CARTRIDGE. MAJ RODRIGUEZ HURTADO SAID THAT MILITARY INTELLIGENCE WILL PROCEED TO ESTABLISH THE ORIGIN OF THESE CARTRIDGES AND THE WEAPONS FOR WHICH THEY ARE INTENDED.</p></body></html>