<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0888"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0888"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0888</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0888 (GTE)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 22 NOV 89 -- [TEXT] ACCORDING TO SOME SOURCES, IN THE PAST FEW DAYS MORE THAN 1,000 PEOPLE HAVE DIED IN EL SALVADOR AFTER THE INTENSIFICATION OF THE FIGHT BETWEEN GOVERNMENT FORCES AND THE GUERRILLAS. MIKHAIL MAYOROV FILED THIS REPORT:</p><p>THE HORRIFYING REPORTS PUBLISHED BY THE NEW YORK TIMES GIVE AN APPROPRIATE IDEA OF THE TRAGEDY IN EL SALVADOR, WHERE A CIVIL WAR IS RAVAGING THE COUNTRY. ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF SAN SALVADOR, WHERE THE FIGHT IS BEING WAGED, THE PEOPLE ARE FORCED TO BURN DEAD BODIES RIGHT IN FRONT OF THEIR HOUSES.</p><p>THE VICTIMS ARE NOT ONLY SOLDIERS AND GUERRILLAS, WHO ARE DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN THE CONFLICT, BUT ALSO CIVILIANS, WHOSE HOUSES ARE HIT BY BOMBS AND PROJECTILES. THE CIVILIANS ARE CONSTANTLY THREATENED BY THE BULLIES OF THE SO-CALLED DEATH SQUADS, WHO MURDERED SIX CATHOLIC PRIESTS AT THE SAN SALVADOR UNIVERSITY CAMPUS.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN SITUATION, WHICH HAS CAUSED SERIOUS CONCERN, CANNOT BE REGARDED AS SOMETHING WHICH IS COMMONLY REFERRED TO AS [WORDS INDISTINCT]. THE INTERDEPENDENCE OF THE WORLD NOW SEEMS TO BE STRONGER THAN EVER. WE HAVE FINALLY UNDERSTOOD THE MEANING OF THE OLD SAYING THAT THERE IS NO ISOLATED TRAGEDY. WE FEEL INCREASINGLY RESPONSIBLE FOR WHAT IS HAPPENING IN THE SO-CALLED HOT SPOTS OF THE PLANET.</p><p>OBVIOUSLY, THE FIRST THING TO BE DONE TO NORMALIZE THE SITUATION IS TO STEM THE DIRECT AND INDIRECT FLOW OF MILITARY SUPPLIES TO BOTH SIDES.</p><p>MOSCOW HAS ALREADY TAKEN THIS POSITION. HOWEVER, U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH HAS TERMED INADMISSIBLE THE POSSIBILITY OF HALTING THE AID TO THE GOVERNMENT OF ALFREDO CRISTIANI.</p><p>IF WE COMPARE THE SALVADORAN AND THE AFGHAN SITUATIONS, WHY DOES THE U.S. ADMINISTRATION SO BITTERLY REPPROACHED US FOR HELPING THE NAJIBULLAH REGIME?</p><p>WE HAVE UNFORTUNATELY NOT YET ADOPTED GENERAL CRITERIA.</p><p>OUR FOREIGN POLICY IS CONSISTENT, MAYOROV SAYS. IN MY OPINION, SOVIET DIPLOMACY HAS A MORE FLEXIBLE ATTITUDE TOWARD THE CURRENT SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR. THE SOVIET GOVERNMENT HAS ABANDONED ITS CONSERVATIVE STAND, WHICH MADE US SUPPORT JUST ONE SIDE. IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, THE WAR IS A TRAGEDY FOR ALL THE PEOPLE, AND THE MAGNITUDE OF THE TRAGEDY GROWS AS THE CONFLICT BECOMES MORE SERIOUS.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT WILL REFLECT THE WILLINGNESS THAT MOSCOW AND WASHINGTON HAVE TO HELP A SMALL NATION, WHICH IS TIRED OF A LONG-STANDING CONFLICT, FIND A WAY TOWARDS PEACE.</p><p>ALL OF US ARE WAITING FOR THE SOVIET-U.S. SUMMIT WHICH WILL BE HELD OFF THE COAST OF MALTA. IT IS DIFFICULT TO IMAGINE THE ISSUES THAT WILL BE ON THE AGENDA BECAUSE THE MEETING WILL BE UNOFFICIAL [AS HEARD].</p><p>THERE ARE MANY ISSUES THAT MAY BE ADDRESSED IN A BILATERAL SUMMIT. IT IS HIGHLY DESIRABLE, HOWEVER, THAT BOTH SIDES REACH AN UNDERSTANDING AND THAT THEY IDENTIFY THE POSSIBILITIES OF COOPERATION FOR THE RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PROBLEM.</p></body></html>