<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0321"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0321"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0321</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0321 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 1 AUG 89 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [EXCERPT] TWO PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND THREE WOUNDED IN AN ATTACK ON THE LOCAL MILITARY COMMAND POST IN SAN RAMON BY FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] UNITS.</p><p>THE GUERRILLAS ATTACKED THE COMMAND POST IN SAN RAMON WITH MORTARS AND RIFLE FIRE. THE FIGHTING LASTED NEARLY 2 HOURS. ONE CIVILIAN AND ONE SOLDIER WERE KILLED, AND SEVERAL PARAMILITARY SQUAD MEMBERS AND CIVILIANS WERE WOUNDED.</p><p>AFTER THE FIGHTING, OUR CAMERAMEN TOOK THESE CLIPS, WHICH SHOW THE HARSHNESS AND CRUELTY OF THIS WAR, WHICH HAS AFFECTED MANY CIVILIANS. AS CAN BE SEEN, THE CIVILIANS WERE WAITING TO BE RESCUED BY HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS, BUT FOR SOME PEOPLE IT WAS ALREADY TOO LATE, BECAUSE THEY WERE KILLED IN THE CROSSFIRE.</p><p>THE COMMAND POST IN SOYAPANGO WAS ALSO ATTACKED ON 30 JULY, AND ONE PERSON WAS KILLED. DURING TODAY'S ATTACK ON SAN RAMON, THE CIVIL DEFENSE UNITS WERE SUPPORTED BY THE RAMON BELLOSO BATTALION, WHICH WAS ABLE TO GAIN CONTROL OF THE SITUATION BY NIGHTFALL. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p></body></html>