<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0798"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0798"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0798</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0798 (PRC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 18 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION, ATTENTION. WE HAVE A LAST MINUTE REPORT. THE REPORT IS COMING FROM THE CAPITAL CITY. HEAVY CLASHES ARE CONTINUING THIS MORNING IN VARIOUS PARTS OF NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>CLASHES ARE CONTINUING IN THE NORTHEASTERN NEIGHBORHOODS OF SAN SALVADOR, AND HEAVY FIGHTING IS TAKING PLACE IN CIUDAD DELGADO. THE ENEMY TROOPS ARE SUPPORTED BY ARMORED VEHICLES, HELICOPTERS, AND A [WORD INDISTINCT] SMALL PLANE, BUT OUR COMRADES ARE MAINTAINING THEIR POSITIONS IN CIUDAD DELGADO.</p><p>THIS IS A LAST MINUTE REPORT. HEAVY FIGHTING IS CURRENTLY TAKING PLACE IN THE SAN SALVADOR NORTHEASTERN NEIGHBORHOODS. THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] IS DETERMINED TO WIN. CIUDAD DELGADO CONTINUES FIGHTING. THERE ARE ALSO HEAVY CLASHES IN MEJICANOS.</p><p>ATTENTION. HEAVY CLASHES ARE NOT JUST TAKING PLACE IN SAN SALVADOR. CLASHES ALSO CONTINUE IN SAN MIGUEL CITY. THE FMLN POSITIONS IN SAN MIGUEL CONTINUE TO BE STRONG. WE CONTINUE TO ADVANCE IN SAN MIGUEL CITY.</p><p>THE REPORT COMING FROM SAN MIGUEL STATES THAT CLASHES CONTINUE AT THIS TIME. CIUDAD DELGADO AND SAN MIGUEL ARE BOTH CENTERS OF POPULAR FIGHTING.</p><p>RADIO VENCEREMOS IS RECEIVING LAST MINUTE REPORTS. TODAY, SATURDAY 18 NOVEMBER, WE ARE RECEIVING A REPORT SAYING THAT AT 0500, OUR FIGHTERS BEGAN A COUNTERATTACK ON POSITIONS OF THE ARMED FORCES ENGINEERS MILITARY DETACHMENT, DEMIFA. THE DEMIFA POSITION WAS ATTACKED, AND THE CLASHES HAVE SPREAD TO [WORDS INDISTINCT] AND THE DEMIFA HEADQUARTERS. [PASSAGE INDISTINCT]</p><p>IN ADDITION, A STEEL FACTORY IN ZACATECOLUCA WAS SABOTAGED AFTER DISLODGING THE [WORD INDISTINCT] DEMIFA TROOPS.</p><p>WE REPEAT. THE FMLN BEGAN A COUNTERATTACK ON THE DEMIFA HEADQUARTERS IN ZACATECOLUCA AT 0500 TODAY. THE CLASHES IN ZACATECOLUCA CITY, LA PAZ DEPARTMENT HAVE SPREAD NORTH, WEST, AND EAST OF THE DEMIFA HEADQUARTERS.</p><p>AT 0500, THE FMLN FORCES BEGAN TO MOVE IN THE DEMIFA HEADQUARTERS, ATTACKING IT WITH RIFLE AND ARTILLERY FIRE AND MACHINEGUNS. IN ZACATECOLUCA, LA PAZ DEPARTMENT, OUR FORCES TOOK CONTROL OF THE ENTIRE STEEL FACTORY. AFTER DISLODGING THE ENEMY TROOPS, OUR FORCES SET THE FACTORY ON FIRE. THE FACTORY IS OWNED BY ONE OF THE OLIGARCHIC FAMILIES THAT FINANCE THE DEATH SQUADS.</p><p>THE REPORTS WE HAVE JUST READ TO YOU, WHICH CAME FROM SAN SALVADOR, ZACATECOLUCA, AND SAN MIGUEL -- THREE VERY IMPORTANT SALVADORAN CITIES -- INDICATE THAT FIGHTING HAS INCREASED TODAY. AT THIS TIME, THE AIR FORCE IS BOMBING FMLN POSITIONS IN CIUDAD DELGADO, NORTHEASTERN SAN SALVADOR. THE AIR FORCE IS NOW CONDUCTING AN INDISCRIMINATE ATTACK IN DENSELY POPULATED AREAS.</p></body></html>