<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0168"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0168"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0168</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0168 (BELLCORE)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 7 APR 89 (EL NUEVO DIARIO) -- [TEXT] COMMANDER [BAYARDO] ARCE HAS DECRIBED THE OPPOSITION'S TRIP TO GUATEMALA AS A "BLUNDER" AND SAID THAT IT WOULD BE REGRETTABLE IF THE POLITICAL PARTIES WENT TO THAT MEETING TO LOOK FOR A "LEADER" TO CONFRONT THE SANDINIST NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FSLN] FROM AMONG THOSE COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY CHIEFTAINS.</p><p>ARCE, A MEMBER OF THE [FSLN NATIONAL] DIRECTORATE, INSISTED THAT THE OPPOSITION'S MEETING WITH THE MERCENARIES IS A "BLUNDER" FROM ANY POINT OF VIEW SINCE WHICHEVER PARTY DECIDES TO BE THE UMBRELLA ORGANIZATION FOR ALL THESE GROUPS WILL NOT GAIN ANY PRESTIGE.</p><p>NONETHELESS, HE SAID THE BEST THING WOULD BE FOR THE CONTRAS TO FIND OUT WHO WILL BE THE STEPPING STONE FOR THEM TO ENTER THE COUNTRY, INASMUCH AS IT IS A DEFEATED MERCENARY FORCE THAT HAS BEEN UNMASKED AS DEPENDENT ON THE U.S. GOVERNMENT.</p><p>"I DO NOT BELIEVE THEY HAVE THE NERVE TO SAY THAT THEY ARE NOW A POLITICAL PARTY, AND THAT THEY ARE LOOKING FOR SOMEONE WHO WILL BE THEIR STEPPING STONE IN ORDER FOR THEM TO JOIN THE CIVIC STRUGGLE NOW THAT THE THE WAR OPTION HAS BEEN DEFEATED," HE ADDED.</p><p>THE SANDINIST LEADER INSISTED THAT IF THE OPPOSITION GOES TO GUATEMALA TO LOOK FOR A "LEADER" TO CONFRONT THE [FSLN] IN THE ELECTIONS, THIS WILL DEMONSTRATE THAT THE POLITICAL PARTIES ARE WEAK.</p><p>HE ADDED THE CONTRA CHIEFTAINS DO NOT HAVE THE QUALIFICATIONS TO BECOME PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES SINCE THEY ARE MORE CRIMINAL THAN THE COUNTERREVOLUTIONARIES THEMSELVES WHO CARRY OUT AMBUSHES, WHILE THEIR CHEIFTAINS SIT IN LUXURY HOTELS IN TEGUCIGALPA, SAN JOSE, MIAMI, AND WASHINGTON ENCOURAGING THE AGGRESSION AGAINST THE NICARAGUAN PEOPLE.</p><p>WHEN ASKED ABOUT FSLN ACTIVITIES FOR THE NEXT ELECTION CAMPAIGN, ARCE SAID THAT HIS PARTY IS NOT OUT PREPARING FOR ELECTIONS BUT IS CONTINUING TO WORK TOWARD THE FULFILLMENT OF ALL THE TASKS THAT THE NICARAGUAN PEOPLE ARE CARRYING OUT, PARTICULARLY THE STRUGGLE FOR PEACE AND FOR THE ECONOMY.</p><p>WE WILL PREPARE OUR FORCES FOR THE FEBRUARY 1990 ELECTIONS, BUT FIRST WE HAVE THE TASKS AHEAD FOR CELEBRATING THE 10TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE REVOLUTION, HE ADDED.</p><p>THE COMMITTEE THAT WILL ORGANIZE THE CELEBRATIONS WILL BE ANNOUNCED ON 19 APRIL.</p><p>[COMMANDER] ARCE SAID THAT THE NEXT ELECTION CAMPAIGN MIGHT BE MORE "INTERESTING" IF THE PARTIES THAT BELIEVED THAT THE [REAGAN] ADMINISTRATION WOULD DEFEAT THE REVOLUTION MILITARILY AND ABSTAINED FROM THE 1984 ELECTION WOULD DECIDE TO JOIN THE CIVIC STRUGGLE.</p><p>DUE TO THE PEACE EFFORTS OF THE REVOLUTION, EVEN THE CONTRAS COULD PARTICIPATE IN THE ELECTIONS, AND WE WILL FIND OUT WHO'S WHO AND EACH PARTY WILL BE ABLE TO EXPLAIN WHAT IT HAS DONE FOR THE NICARAGUAN PEOPLE, THE SANDINIST LEADER SAID.</p></body></html>