<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0614"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0614"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0614</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0614 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>LIMA, 28 OCT 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] PERUVIAN DRUG TRAFFICKER EMILIO REYNOSO AGUILAR, ALIAS "RETACO I," ARRIVED IN LIMA TODAY UNDER STRICT POLICE SECURITY. REYNOSO WAS EXTRADITED FROM COLOMBIA TO BE TRIED HERE ON CHARGES OF MURDER, KIDNAPPING, DRUG TRAFFICKING, ROBBERY, AND OTHER CRIMES.</p><p>"RETACO I" IS LINKED TO COLOMBIA'S MEDELLIN CARTEL. HE WAS HANDED OVER TO PERUVIAN POLICE OFFICERS WHO HAD TRAVELED TO COLOMBIA TO BRING HIM TO LIMA, WHERE HE IS UNDER INDICTMENT BY NINE DIFFERENT COURTS.</p><p>REYNOSO IS KNOWN IN LIMA AS "THE ESCAPE KING" BECAUSE HE HAS ESCAPED FROM PERUVIAN JAILS A NUMBER OF TIMES DISGUISED AS A WOMAN OR A POLICE OFFICER. REYNOSO ESCAPED FROM THE JUSTICE PALACE AFTER TAKING THE POLICE OFFICER GUARDING HIM HOSTAGE.</p><p>"RETACO I'S" BROTHERS HAVE SIMILAR ALIASES; THEY ARE CALLED RETACO II, III, AND IV. ALL OF THEM HAVE ACCOUNTS TO SETTLE WITH THE COURTS, BUT ONLY ONE OF THEM IS CURRENTLY IN JAIL.</p><p>"RETACO I" LEFT PERU ON 1984 TO CONTINUE HIS CRIMINAL CAREER IN OTHER COUNTRIES. HE FINALLY ENDED UP IN COLOMBIA, WHERE HE WORKED WITH DRUG TRAFFICKERS UNTIL HIS ARREST. REYNOSO IS CONSIDERED VERY DANGEROUS. THE PROBLEM FOR THE PERUVIAN POLICE WILL NOW BE TO KEEP "THE ESCAPE KING" IN JAIL.</p></body></html>