<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0201"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0201"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0201</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0201 (ADS)</p><p>LIMA, 8 MAY 89 (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [EXCERPTS] SENATOR LUIS ALBERTO SANCHEZ HAS BEEN DESIGNATED NEW PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS. THIS WAS REPORTED BY PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA ON ARRIVING AT GOVERNMENT PALACE AFTER PAYING HOMAGE IN CONGRESS TO LATE [APRA AMERICAN POPULAR REVOLUTIONARY ALLIANCE] DEPUTY PABLO LI ORMENO.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ALAN GARCIA] I THINK IT IS A BARBAROUS CRIME WHICH WE MUST REPUDIATE AND AGAINST WHICH WE MUST ALL FIGHT.</p><p>WE NEED TO PUT ALL POLICE FORCES IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST TERRORISM. WE CAN NO LONGER SCATTER OUR EFFORTS AND KEEP SOME SECTORS IDLE. I HAVE SEEN POLICE AGENTS WORKING AS DRIVERS, SOME OF THEM PLAYING THE ROLE OF GREAT PERSONALITIES, OF CHIEFS. I HAVE SEEN MANY POLICEMEN DOING ADMINISTRATIVE WORK. WE ARE PAYING THOSE PEOPLE AND WE HAVE TRAINED THEM TO FIGHT AGAINST OUR MAIN ENEMY, WHICH IS TERRORISM.</p><p>I WANT TO TELL YOU THAT THE PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS, AND WITH HIM ALL MEMBERS OF THE MINISTERIAL CABINET, HAVE PRESENTED THEIR RESIGNATIONS. PRIME MINISTER ARMANDO VILLANUEVA FEELS THAT A POLITICAL RENEWAL IS NECESSARY TO GIVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO THE DEMOCRATIC SECTORS TO PARTICIPATE MORE ACTIVELY IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST SUBVERSION. THE MURDER OF ANOTHER CONGRESSMAN HAS LED THE MINISTERS TO PRESENT THEIR RESIGNATIONS.</p><p>THIS POLITICAL RENEWAL MUST LEAD ALL PERUVIANS TO JOIN EFFORTS. WE MUST FORGET OUR ELECTORAL CONFRONTATIONS AND ADVERSITIES FOR A WHILE AND UNDERSTAND THAT THE STRUGGLE AGAINST TERRORISM IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN THE ELECTIONS. WE MUST UNDERSTAND THAT WE ARE AT WAR AGAINST TERRORISM, THAT WE ARE AT WAR AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING, AND THAT THIS WAR REPRESENTS A COST OF THOUSANDS OF MILLIONS OF INTIS, DOZENS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS. WE MUST MAKE THIS TREMENDOUS EFFORT TO END SUBVERSION ONCE AND FOR ALL. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>