<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0156"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0156"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0156</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0156 (BELLCORE)</p><p>LIMA, 27 MAR 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] A LOCAL RADIO STATION HAS REPORTED THAT ALLEGED SHINING PATH MEMBERS AND MERCENARIES AT THE SERVICE OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS TODAY ATTACKED AN IMPORTANT POLICE STATION IN THE JUNGLE DISTRICT OF UCHIZA, AND THAT THERE MAY BE MANY CASUALTIES ON BOTH SIDES.</p><p>THE RADIO STATION RADIO PROGRAMAS DEL PERU (PPR) BASES THEIR INFORMATION ON A REPORT FROM A SPOKESMAN OF ANOTHER POLICE STATION OF THE NATIONAL POLICE LOCATED IN TOCACHE, 145 KM SOUTH OF UCHIZA.</p><p>THE RADIO STATION SAID THAT IT WAS ABLE TO CONTACT THE TOCACHE POLICE THROUGH A HAM OPERATOR AND THAT THE INFORMATION RECEIVED INDICATES THAT FIGHTING LASTED FOR SEVERAL HOURS MAY HAVE CAUSED MANY CASUALTIES.</p><p>RADIO PROGRAMAS SAID THAT THE SO-CALLED "NARCOTERRORISTS" ATTACKED THE POLICE STATION WITH FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES.</p><p>THE UCHIZA POLICE STATION IS 550 KM SOUTHEAST OF LIMA AND HAS A COMPLIMENT OF ABOUT 50 POLICEMEN. THE POLICE SPOKESMAN TOLD THE RADIO STATION THAT THE NUMBER OF TERRORISTS WHO ATTACKED THE POLICE STATION IS NOT KNOWN.</p><p>A PERUVIAN TELEPHONE COMPANY SOURCE SAID THAT THE COMMUNICATION BETWEEN LIMA AND UCHIZA, BOTH TELEPHONE AND RADIO, "ARE INTERRUPTED" BUT THE REASONS FOR THIS WAS NOT GIVEN.</p><p>UCHIZA IS LOCATED IN THE SAN MARTIN DEPARTMENT, IN THE ALTO HUALLAGA REGION, WHICH HAS BEEN DOMINATED BY SHINING PATH FOR THE LAST 2 YEARS AND HAS ALLIED ITSELF WITH POWERFUL DRUG TRAFFICKERS ACCORDING TO PRIME MINISTER ARMANDO VILLANUEVA DEL CAMPO.</p><p>BOTH UCHIZA AND TOCACHE ARE CONSIDERED POTENTIAL ZONES FOR GROWING COCA AND FOR MAKING COCAINE BASE. THEY HAVE BEEN UNDER A STATE OF EMERGENCY AND MILITARY CONTROL SINCE 1987.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE NATIONAL POLICE, PERU IS THE LARGEST PRODUCER OF COCA AND THE BIGGEST POTENTIAL SELLER OF COCAINE BASE TO INTERNATIONAL DRUG TRAFFICKERS.</p></body></html>