<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0538"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0538"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0538</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0538 (UMASS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 25 SEP 89 (EL SIGLO) -- [EDITORIAL] [GERMAN ISAZA ROBLEDO] [TEXT] THE SELF-DETERMINATION OF PEOPLES MEANS NATIONS HAVE THE ABILITY TO SETTLE THEIR DOMESTIC PROBLEMS BY THEMSELVES. BASED ON THIS VIEW, SEVERAL OF THE COUNTRY'S MOST OUSTANDING DEMOCRATS AND DUPES DENOUNCED FOREIGN MILITARY AID TO FIGHT DRUG TRAFFICKING, A SCOURGE THAT BECAME AN INTERNATIONAL PROBLEM A LONG TIME AGO AND IS WEAKENING COLOMBIAN SOVEREIGNTY.</p><p>I HAVE NO DOUBT THAT THOSE WHO ARE NOW MOST OPPOSED TO THE PRESENCE OF U.S. MILITARY ADVISERS AND EXPERTS ARE THOSE WHO REGARD THIS PRESENCE AS A SERIOUS OBSTACLE TO THE ARMED ORGANIZATIONS THEY PROMOTE AND THAT ARE TRAINED BY LIBYAN, BRITISH, CUBAN, AND ISRAELI EXPERTS.</p><p>IT IS OBVIOUS THAT SOVEREIGNTY IS THE MOST IMPORTANT ELEMENT FOR THE EXISTENCE OF A STATE. HOWEVER, WE LOST OUR SOVEREIGNTY LONG AGO AND TO REGAIN IT WE MUST ACCEPT ALL THE AID THE HONEST INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY CAN OFFER US.</p><p>SOVEREIGNTY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, MEANS ADOPTING DECISIONS BASED ON THE NEEDS OR PREFERENCES OF THE NATION AS A WHOLE. THAT STOPPED HAPPENING IN COLOMBIA WHEN THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS BEGAN TO INTIMIDATE AND DESTROY THE LEGITIMATE INSTITUTIONS OF THE STATE. HOW CAN WE TALK OF SOVEREIGNTY WHEN WE SEE THAT OUR PEOPLE HAVE FALLEN PREY TO TERRORISM; THAT THEY ARE LIVING AND DYING ENSLAVED BY DAILY BOMBINGS AND LIES; THAT THEY ARE GOVERNING UNDER THE PRESSURE OF THREATS; THAT THEY HAVE SOUGHT REFUGE IN A HOME IMPRISONED BY FEAR? IT IS ABSURD TO TALK OF A TRULY SOVEREIGN STATE WHEN IT IS KNOWN THAT SEVERAL OF THE COUNTRY'S TOP POLITICAL AND BUSINESS LEADERS ARE INVOLVED IN CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES. AN ACT OF SOVEREIGNTY -- ONE IN THE MIDST OF SO MUCH SUBJUGATION -- WOULD BE TO STRIP OURSELVES OF SO MUCH VAIN PRIDE AND ACCEPT THE FACT THAT WE ARE WEAK AND NEED ALL THE HELP OFFERED BY ANYONE WHOSE INTENTIONS ARE BASED ON THE LAW. MOREOVER, IT IS IRONIC THAT SEVERAL OF THOSE WHO ARE CLAMORING FOR "THE DEFENSE OF SOVEREIGNTY" ARE THE SAME ONES WHO ARE NOW ASKING THE U.S. GOVERNMENT TO EXPLAIN THE CANCELLATION OF VISAS. IS IT NOT A MATTER OF NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY TO DECIDE WHO CAN AND CANNOT ENTER THAT COUNTRY?</p><p>I AM REMINDED OF THOSE THOUSANDS OF CASES OF FOOD AND MEDICINE DONATED TO COLOMBIA FOLLOWING THE ARMERO CATASTROPHE THAT ROTTED IN THE COUNTRY'S CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES. ARMERO IS THE BURIAL GROUND FOR 30,000 COLOMBIANS AND THE SCENE OF THE TRAGEDY OF THOUSANDS MORE. DESPITE THE REGRETTABLE END THAT THIS AID MET IN SO MANY WAREHOUSES, NOBODY OPPOSED INTERNATIONAL SOLIDARITY WITH THAT CORNER OF TOLIMA DEPARTMENT.</p><p>THE WAR ON DRUG TRAFFICKERS COULD BURY US. LET US STRUGGLE FOR SOVEREINGTY AND ACCEPT THE ADVICE OFFERED BY THE UNITED STATES, OR WE WILL END UP ROTTING IN A WAREHOUSE FILLED WITH WHITE POWDER.</p></body></html>