<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0945"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0945"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TOKYO (JAPAN)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0945</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0945 (SRI)</p><p>TOKYO (JAPAN), 7 DEC 89 (KYODO) -- [TEXT] COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS SAID HERE ON THURSDAY HIS GOVERNMENT WILL NOT BOW TO TERRORIST THREATS EXEMPLIFIED BY WEDNESDAY'S BOMB EXPLOSION IN BOGOTA.</p><p>BARCO, WHO IS ON A FOUR-DAY VISIT TO JAPAN THROUGH FRIDAY, SAID THAT SUCH SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES ARE BASED ON THE MISTAKEN BELIEF OF TERRORISTS THAT VIOLENCE CAN TOPPLE THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>HE SAID HIS GOVERNMENT WOULD FIGHT OFF SUCH CHALLENGES.</p><p>A TRUCK, PACKED WITH DYNAMITE, EXPLODED IN FRONT OF THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE SECURITY, COLOMBIA'S FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS POLICE, ON WEDNESDAY.</p><p>AT LEAST 35 PEOPLE DIED AND 350 PEOPLE WERE WOUNDED IN THE BLAST, WHICH IS BELIEVED TO HAVE BEEN RELATED TO THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT'S ATTEMPTS TO ELIMINATE THE DRUG TRADE.</p><p>COLOMBIA IS SAID TO BE THE LARGEST EXPORTER OF THE ILLICIT DRUG, COCAINE, TO THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER WESTERN COUNTRIES.</p><p>THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT HAS INTENSIFIED ITS CRACKDOWN ON THE COCAINE SMUGGLERS SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF A LEADING PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE ON AUGUST 18.</p><p>BARCO, SPEAKING AT THE JAPAN NATIONAL PRESS CLUB EXPRESSED CONCERN ABOUT AN INCREASE OF COCAINE CONSUMPTION IN THE UNITED STATES AND EUROPEAN COUNTRIES, AND CALLED FOR WESTERN INDUSTRIALIZED NATIONS TO HELP STABILIZE THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN COLOMBIA, WITH PARTICULAR EMPHASIS ON MORE ECONOMIC SUPPORT.</p><p>ASKED ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY COLOMBIA WOULD CALL ON THE UNITED STATES TO HELP SOLVE THE PROBLEM WITH ARMED FORCES, THE PRESIDENT EMPHASIZED HE HAS NO INTENTION OF ALLOWING ANY INTERFERENCE BY FOREIGN COUNTRIES IN HIS NATION.</p><p>BARCO IS SCHEDULED TO LEAVE JAPAN FOR COLOMBIA FRIDAY.</p></body></html>