<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0394"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0394"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0394</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0394 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 29 AUG 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] SEVEN POWERFUL BOMBS WERE SET OFF IN BOGOTA AND MEDELLIN EARLY THIS MORNING IN WHAT SEEMS TO BE THE CONTINUATION OF THE "WAR" DECLARED BY THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS IN REPRISAL FOR THE MAJOR BLOWS THEY HAVE BEEN DEALT BY THE AUTHORITIES IN VARIOUS AREAS OF COLOMBIA.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE INITIAL POLICE REPORTS, SIX BOMBS EXPLODED IN MEDELLIN, THE COUNTRY'S SECOND-LARGEST CITY, WHERE THE RESPONSE FROM THE DRUG DEALERS HAS BEEN MORE STRONGLY FELT IN RECENT DAYS.</p><p>THE BOMBS WERE PLACED IN LIQUOR STORES WHERE, ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL ESTIMATES, THE DAMAGE IS EXTENSIVE.</p><p>MEDELLIN WAS THE FIRST CITY HIT BY THE DRUG CARTEL'S "COUNTERATTACK" AFTER THE SO-CALLED "EXTRADITABLES" ISSUED A COMMUNIQUE IN WHICH THEY VOWED TO WAGE A "WAR" ON THE GOVERNMENT, JUDGES, BUSINESSMEN, AND JOURNALISTS NATIONWIDE. THE EXTRADITABLES ARE DRUG TRAFFICKERS SOUGHT BY U.S. COURTS.</p><p>ON SUNDAY, NINE BOMBS EXPLODED AND COMPLETELY DESTROYED SEVERAL STATE-OWNED BANKS.</p><p>MEANWHILE, ANOTHER BOMB EXPLODED IN BOGOTA IN FRONT OF A TRAVEL AGENCY, BUT THE EXTENT OF THE DAMAGE HAS YET TO BE REPORTED.</p><p>THE INTENSE OFFENSIVE BY PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO'S ADMINISTRATION BEGAN 2 WEEKS AGO IN THE WAKE OF A NUMBER OF CRIMINAL ATTACKS THAT CLAIMED THE LIVES OF PRESIDENTIAL HOPEFUL LUIS CARLOS GALAN, A HIGH-RANKING POLICE OFFICER, AND A JUDGE.</p><p>THE POLICE REPORTED TODAY THAT FOR THE FIRST TIME, COMBINED ARMY AND POLICE FORCES RAIDED SEVERAL PROPERTIES OWNED BY HERNANDO SUAREZ BURGOS, [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE RULING LIBERAL PARTY, IN SOUTHWESTERN NARINO DEPARTMENT.</p><p>UNITS OF THE ELITE FORCES, THE MAIN ONES INVOLVED IN THE OPERATIONS, ALSO RAIDED THE PRIVATE RESIDENCE OF BUSINESSMAN EDGARDO BARROS, PRESIDENT OF THE SPORTING SOCCER CLUB OF CALI.</p><p>POLICE SPOKESMEN ALSO REPORTED TODAY THAT MORE THAN 7,000 PEOPLE WHO HAD BEEN ARRESTED SINCE THE BEGINNING OF THE OFFENSIVE WERE RELEASED WHEN IT WAS FULLY PROVEN THEY HAD NO LINKS WITH THE DRUG MAFIAS.</p><p>MEANWHILE, APPROXIMATELY 4,000 PEOPLE REMAIN IN CUSTODY AWAITING JUDICIAL RULINGS.</p></body></html>