<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1262"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1262"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1262</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1262 (BOEING)</p><p>NO CITY, NO DATE (FBIS) -- [TEXT] SAN SALVADOR DOMESTIC SERVICE IN SPANISH AT 1808 GMT ON 3 MAY BEGINS TO BROADCAST LIVE A NEWS CONFERENCE WITH SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI FROM THE PRESIDENTIAL HOUSE IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>CRISTIANI BEGINS BY SAYING THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS LOOKING TO PUT TOGETHER A VIABLE AGENDA FOR ITS UPCOMING MEETING WITH THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] SO THAT SOME HEADWAY CAN BE MADE IN THE TALKS. HE ADDS: "FROM WHAT WE CAN FORESEE, WE HOPE THE DIRECT MEETINGS WILL BEGIN IN A WEEK AND A HALF, OR SOMEWHERE AROUND THERE. THAT IS WHEN WE THINK THEY COULD START.... IN GENERAL TERMS, WE DO BELIEVE PROGRESS WILL BE MADE AND THAT WE WILL ADVANCE QUITE RAPIDLY."</p><p>IN RESPONSE TO A QUESTION REGARDING A LETTER FROM AN UNNAMED GROUP OF YOUNG MILITARY OFFICERS ADVOCATING A PURGE OF THE MILITARY AND SUPPORTING CRITICISMS MADE BY FORMER ARMY COLONEL SIGIFREDO OCHOA PEREZ, CRISTIANI SAYS: "I HAVE NEVER BELIEVED ANONYMOUS LETTERS OR NOTES. THE FACT THAT IT IS ANONYMOUS CASTS SOME DOUBT ON THE INTENTIONS BEHIND IT OR ABOUT THE GROUP THAT COULD BE SENDING IT. POSING AS YOUNG OFFICERS IS EASY TO DO. THIS COULD HAVE COME FROM THE FMLN -- MAKING AN ISSUE OF ALL THAT THEY HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT -- OR FROM ANY OTHER GROUP."</p><p>REGARDING THE FMLN COMMUNIQUE ON THE REBELS' RECENT MILITARY OFFENSIVE, HE STATES: "I READ THE COMMUNIQUE AND I HONESTLY BELIEVE THAT IT IS ONE OF THE MOST RIDICULOUS FMLN COMMUNIQUES I HAVE SEEN TO DATE.... I FEEL THAT THIS WAS A WAY TO SEEK NOTORIETY THROUGH THE NEWS. THIS COULD BE ONE OF THE REASONS. THE OTHER REASON COULD BE THAT THEY ARE HAVING PROBLEMS AMONG THEMSELVES.... SOME OF THEM VIEW THE DIALOGUE AS SOMETHING SERIOUS WHILE OTHERS DO NOT, AND IT COULD BE THAT THESE PROBLEMS ARE RESULTING IN THESE IRRATIONAL ADVENTURES BY THE FMLN."</p><p>TURNING TO RECENT U.S. GOVERNMENT CRITICISM CHARGING SLOWNESS IN THE HANDLING OF THE INVESTIGATION AND PROSECUTION OF THOSE INVOLVED IN THE JESUIT MURDER CASE, CRISTIANI SAYS: "AS CHIEF EXECUTIVE, I CANNOT SPEED UP, SLOW DOWN, OR ALTER THE JUDGE'S DECISIONS. IN NO DEMOCRACY CAN THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE DICTATE ORDERS TO THE JUDICIAL BRANCH. THE SAME HAPPENS IN THE UNITED STATES AS IN ANY OTHER DEMOCRATIC COUNTRY. I BELIEVE THAT AS FAR AS WE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO SEE -- ALTHOUGH THERE IS MUCH URGENCY IN SEEING THIS TRIAL COMPLETED; THERE ARE GREAT EXPECTATIONS -- THAT THE JUDGE IS DUTY BOUND TO CONTINUE WITH THE JUDICIAL PROCEDURES STIPULATED BY SALVADORAN LAW." HE POINTS OUT THAT THE PROSECUTION OF GENERAL NORIEGA IN THE UNITED STATES IS ALSO TAKING A LONG TIME.</p><p>REGARDING A REPORTED FMLN ATTACK ON HIS RESIDENCE IN SAN SALVADOR YESTERDAY, CRISTIANI SAYS: "I DO NOT KNOW WHO THE PERSON WAS WHO REPORTED AN ATTACK ON THE PRESIDENTIAL RESIDENCE, EITHER THE OFFICIAL OR THE PRIVATE ONE. NEITHER OF THEM WAS ATTACKED, THOUGH THERE COULD HAVE BEEN SOME INFORMATION THAT SUCH AN ATTACK WAS EXPECTED. AN FMLN COLUMN WAS DISPERSED IN AREAS CLOSE TO THE TWO RESIDENCES."</p><p>QUESTIONED ABOUT THE EFFECTS ON THE GOVERNMENT OF A POSSIBLE CUT IN U.S. GOVERNMENT AID TO EL SALVADOR, CRISTIANI RESPONDS: "WELL, I THINK THAT FIRST OF ALL, THE EFFECTS OF A REDUCTION OR CUT OF AID WOULD BE TWOFOLD. FIRST, I THINK IT WOULD BE A NEGATIVE SIGNAL FOR THE FMLN AND FOR THE OBJECTIVE OF TRYING TO FIND AN END TO THE CONFLICT THROUGH THE DIALOGUE PROCESS THAT HAS BEEN STARTED; AND THAT A CUT IN AID MIGHT BE ANALYZED BY SOME OF THE MEMBERS, OR ALL THE MEMBERS OF THE FMLN, AS MEANING A WEAKENING OF THE GOVERNMENT AND ITS DEFENSE AND THAT, THEREFORE, THEIR MILITARY VICTORY IS NOW CLOSER. AND IT WOULD MAKE IT A LOT MORE DIFFICULT TO END THE CONFLICT IN A SHORT WHILE THROUGH A POLITICAL DIALOGUE. SECOND, OBVIOUSLY THE GOVERNMENT HAS THE RESPONSIBILITY TO DEFEND THE INSTITUTIONS, THE DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS OF THE COUNTRY, AND WILL NOT STANDBY WITH A WEAKENED DEFENSE. THEREFORE, THIS MEANS REALLOCATING RESOURCES THAT MIGHT BE USED FOR OTHER TYPES OF PROGRAMS -- SOCIAL PROGRAMS, ECONOMIC OR POLITICAL PROGRAMS -- ... FOR DEFENSE PURPOSES."</p><p>RETURNING THE JESUITS MURDER CASE, CRISTIANI IS ASKED IF THE MILITARY HIGH COMMAND IS BEING INVESTIGATED. HE SAYS: "FIRST OF ALL I WOULD SAY THAT THE HIGH COMMAND -- AND THIS IS JUST MY OWN POINT OF VIEW -- WAS INSTRUMENTAL IN MAKING IT POSSIBLE TO CARRY OUT THE INVESTIGATION. THE HIGH COMMAND MADE IT POSSIBLE FOR THE INVESTIGATION TO BE WITHIN THE ARMED FORCES, AN INVESTIGATION THAT HAS NO PRECEDENT IN THE PAST WITH RESPECT TO INVESTIGATING MILITARY UNITS.... IT WOULD BE VERY DIFFICULT TO BELIEVE THAT BY SUPPORTING THE INVESTIGATION AND OPENING UP THE ARMED FORCES SO THAT THEY CAN BE INVESTIGATED IN THIS CASE, THEY WOULD HAVE DONE SO IF THERE WERE SOME INVOLVEMENT ON THEIR PART."</p><p>FURTHER AS AVAILABLE.</p></body></html>