<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0485"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0485"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0485</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0485 (UMASS)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, NO DATE (TELEONCE TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE SETTING OF EXPLOSIVE DEVICES AND THE KIDNAPPINGS ARE AN ATTEMPT BY SOME TO GIVE THE GOVERNMENT JUSTIFICATION FOR USING A STRONG HAND, PRESIDENT CEREZO SAID. THE PRESIDENT STRESSED THAT THE BOMBS AND THE [WORDS INDISTINCT] OF CANDIDATES IS THE WORK OF TERRORISTS. REPORTING THAT THE RESULTS OF THE INVESTIGATIONS WILL BE PRESENTED IN THE NEXT FEW DAYS, CEREZO AREVALO URGED CITIZENS TO HELP IN THE EFFORTS TO CONTROL VIOLENCE.</p><p>[CEREZO] "FIRST, WE NEED THE PEOPLE'S WILLINGNESS TO HELP, WHICH IMPLIES HAVING THE COURAGE TO PASS ON INFORMATION TO THE GOVERNMENT, BECAUSE PEOPLE FEAR REPRISALS FROM CRIMINALS. HOWEVER, IF WE ARE NOT ALL UNITED TO FIGHT CRIME AND TERRORISM, WE GUATEMALANS WILL CERTAINLY BE AFFECTED SERIOUSLY IN THE FUTURE BY THIS KIND OF VIOLENCE, WHICH SEEMS TO BE SPREADING THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY, AS WE HAVE SAID IN THE PAST.</p><p>"SECOND, I HAVE NOTICED THAT SOME SECTORS HAVE TURNED TO THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY BY REQUESTING THAT HUMAN RIGHTS GROUP REPRESENTATIVES BE SENT HERE, AS IF THE GOVERNMENT [WORDS INDISTINCT]. PEOPLE ARE AWARE THE GOVERNMENT IS NOT RESPONSIBLE, YET THEY HOLD THE GOVERNMENT RESPONSIBLE. I BELIEVE THAT WHAT WE SHOULD DO IS TURN TO THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY -- THE GOVERNMENT WILL DO THIS -- SO THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY CAN HELP US CONTROL TERRORISM.</p><p>"THIRD, I MUST RECOGNIZE THAT ONE OF THE PARTIES, THE UNION OF THE NATIONAL CENTER, HAS ADOPTED A POSITIVE ATTITUDE BY MAKING SUGGESTIONS TO THE GOVERNMENT ON HOW TO CONTROL CRIME. WE ARE GOING TO STUDY THEIR PROPOSALS. WE BELIEVE THAT ALTHOUGH THE PROPOSALS COME FROM AN OPPOSITION PARTY, WE SHOULD ANALYZE THEM. WE URGE ALL SECTORS IN GUATEMALAN SOCIETY NOT TO SIMPLY ADOPT THE EASY ATTITUDE OF ACCUSING THE GOVERNMENT. WE SHOULD INSTEAD ADOPT THE ATTITUDE OF REJECTING CRIME."</p><p>REGARDING THE PROPOSALS HE WILL MAKE DURING HIS UPCOMING VISIT TO THE UN HEARDQUARTERS AND THE RECENT ATTACKS IN GUATEMALA, WHICH HE SAID ARE AIMED AT DESTROYING THE ACCOMPLISHMENTS ACHIEVED DURING THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS, CEREZO AREVALO ADDED:</p><p>[CEREZO] "AMONG THE ISSUES WE ARE GOING TO POINT OUT IS THAT, AT THIS MOMENT, GUATEMALA IS THE TARGET OF AN ATTEMP TO UNDERMINE THE CONSOLIDATION OF DEMOCRACY. WE ARE GOING TO NEED THE HELP OF DEMOCRACIES THAT ARE FRIENDS OF GUATEMALA, BUT NOT IN THE CAPACITY OF JUDGES. WE ARE GOING TO NEED TOTAL SUPPORT TO CONTROL A DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST OFFENSIVE THAT IS TAKING PLACE IN THE COUNTRY AND THAT SEEKS TO DESTROY THE REPUBLIC."</p><p>THERE ARE PEOPLE INTERESTED IN HAVING THE LARGE NUMBER OF REFUGEES WHO HAVE RETURNED TO THE COUNTRY SINCE CEREZO WAS SWORN IN LEAVE THE COUNTRY AGAIN TO DISCREDIT GUATEMALA, PRESIDENT CEREZO SAID.</p><p>[CEREZO] "DURING 3 AND 1/2 YEARS OF DEMOCRACY, IN WHICH WE IMPLEMENTED PLANS AND GUARANTEED THE RIGHTS OF ALL CITIZENS, GUATEMALA BEGAN TO WELCOME ALL KINDS OF PEOPLE: REFUGEES -- GUATEMALANS WHO HAVE BEEN LIVING IN EXILE FOR YEARS IN MEXICO AND OTHER COUNTRIES; PEOPLE WHO HAD BEEN THREATENED AND WHO WERE LIVING IN COSTA RICA AND WHO HAVE RETURNED. WE DO NOT EVEN KNOW WHERE THESE PEOPLE WORK BECAUSE, FOR US, THEY ARE GUATEMALANS WHO HAVE RETURNED. HOWEVER, WE ARE BEGINNING TO RECEIVE REPORTS FROM THEM. THEY HAVE TOLD US THEY ARE BEING SYSTEMATICALLY THREATENED OVER THE TELEPHONE. WHO KNOWS WHERE THESE PEOPLE ARE OR HOW THEY GOT THEIR TELEPHONE NUMBERS? HOW IS THIS DONE? THERE ARE PEOPLE INTERESTED IN HAVING THESE FORMER REFUGEES LEAVE THE COUNTRY TO AGAIN REPORT THAT WE ARE VIOLATING HUMAN RIGHTS IN GUATEMALA TO CREATE A CLIMATE OF INTERNATIONAL ISOLATION. I WOULD SAY WE ARE BEING AFFECTED BY TWO TRENDS THAT ARE FIGHTING AGAINST GUATEMALAN DEMOCRACY." [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>