<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0672"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0672"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0672</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0672 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 11 NOV 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [REPORT] [EDWIN GONGORA] [TEXT] SEVERAL ATTACKS ARE TAKING PLACE RIGHT NOW IN SEVERAL PARTS OF THE CITY OF SAN SALVADOR. IT HAS BEEN CONFIRMED THAT THE CIVIL DEFENSE SECTOR IN SOYOPANGO IS UNDER ATTACK RIGHT NOW, AS WELL AS A SECTOR OF THE AIR FORCE. STRONG EXPLOSIONS AND EXCHANGES OF GUNFIRE HAVE BEEN HEARD. FOR THE TIME BEING, WE HAVE NO REPORTS OF ANY CASUALTIES ON EITHER SIDE, THAT IS, THE EXTREMISTS OR THE ARMY. HOWEVER, IT HAS BEEN CONFIRMED THAT THE ATTACKS AGAINST THE MILITARY GARRISONS BEGAN AT APPROXIMATELY 2045, AND THESE ATTACKS CONTINUE NOW AT 2125.</p><p>THESE ATTACKS ARE BEING CARRIED OUT BY MEMBERS OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT AGAINST VARIOUS MILITARY GARRISONS IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>WE URGE THE PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN THOSE AREAS TO REFRAIN FROM GOING OUT. IT IS VERY DIFFICULT TO MOVE IN THOSE AREAS. FOR THE TIME BEING, PLEASE STANDBY, AND WHEN THE SITUATION IS UNDER CONTROL, THEN YOU WILL BE ABLE TO GO HOME. FOR THE TIME BEING, THE SITUATION IS VERY DIFFICULT, AS THE EXPLOSIONS ARE VERY STRONG. THE MACHINEGUN FIRE IS VERY HEAVY.</p></body></html>