<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0013"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0013"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0013</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0013 (NOSC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 9 JAN 90 -- [TEXT] THE CATHOLIC CHURCH HAS EXPRESSED SATISFACTION WITH THE INVESTIGATIONS IN THE CASE OF THE MURDERED JESUITS AND IS ENCOURAGING THE GOVERNMENT TO CONTINUE TO SEARCH FOR THE PERPETRATORS OF THIS CRIME.</p><p>MONSIGNOR GREGORIO ROSA CHAVEZ TODAY STATED THAT THE CATHOLIC CHURCH IS PLEASED WITH THE PROGRESS OF THE INVESTIGATIONS REGARDING THE MURDER OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS. HE SAID THAT IF THE SOLDIERS INVOLVED IN THE KILLING ARE PUNISHED, THE GOVERNMENT WILL NOT ONLY EARN INTERNATIONAL PRESTIGE, BUT WILL LAY THE GROUNDWORK TO CONSOLIDATE THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>ROSA CHAVEZ SAID THAT IF THE KILLING IS SOLVED, THE PERIOD OF IMPUNITY THAT HAS TARNISHED THE JUDICIAL SYSTEM AND COVERED UP A NUMBER OF CRIMES TO WHICH JUSTICE HAS NOT BEEN APPLIED WILL END.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ROSA CHAVEZ] IT SEEMS THAT THE PRESIDENT SHOULD BE RECOGNIZED FOR HAVING HAD THE COURAGE TO KEEP HIS PROMISE TO CONDUCT A THOROUGH INVESTIGATION. WE UNDERSTAND THAT HE HAS NOT YET REVEALED THE DETAILS OF THIS CRIME BUT THAT HE WILL DO SO SOON.</p><p>HOWEVER, I WANT TO SAY SOMETHING THAT HAS NOT BEEN SAID: THE CHURCH IS NOT INTERESTED IN LEARNING WHO THE MURDERERS ARE JUST FOR THE TRUTH TO COME OUT. THE CHURCH WANTS THIS PUNISHMENT TO MEAN THAT IMPUNITY HAS ENDED IN EL SALVADOR; THAT THE POOR WILL FEEL CERTAIN THAT JUSTICE WILL PREVAIL FOR THEM; THAT SO MANY CRIMES THAT HAVE BEEN FORGOTTEN WILL BE SOLVED LITTLE BY LITTLE; BUT MAINLY, THAT FROM NOW ON, CRIMES WILL NO LONGER GO UNSOLVED. [END RECORDING]</p><p>MSGR ROSA CHAVEZ ADDED THAT THE TONE OF VERBAL VIOLENCE MUST BE LOWERED SINCE THIS ONLY RESULTS IN A USELESS CONFRONTATION AND PROMOTES A POLARIZATION OF THE CONFLICT, AS WELL AS HINDERS ANY EFFORT TO APPLY JUSTICE. HE SAID THAT THE VERBAL WAR IS AS HARMFUL AS IRRATIONAL VIOLENCE. HE SAID THAT IRRESPONSIBLE CHARGES AND ACCUSATIONS CONTINUE IN THE COUNTRY, AND THEY DO NOT HELP STRENGTHEN THE PEACE PROCESS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ROSA CHAVEZ] IT IS IMPORTANT TO OVERCOME VERBAL VIOLENCE. THIS MEANS THAT A CALM CLIMATE, A CLIMATE THAT IS AS IMPARTIAL AS POSSIBLE, MUST BE SOUGHT TO DISCUSS ISSUES. WE RECALL THAT LAST YEAR, MANY VIOLENT STATEMENTS WERE MADE. MANY HARSH EXPRESSIONS WERE UTTERED. [WORDS INDISTINCT] TOO MANY HEATED STATEMENTS PRINTED IN SOME NEWSPAPERS. THE LANGUAGE USED IS TOO HARSH. I THINK THAT TO OBTAIN JUSTICE, WE NEED A CALMER CLIMATE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>HE ADDED THAT A CLIMATE OF SERENITY AND RESPECT WOULD FACILITATE THE RIGHT CONDITIONS FOR A DIALOGUE THAT WOULD GUARANTEE MECHANISMS TO RECONCILE OUR SOCIETY. HE URGED THE GOVERNMENT AND THE JUDICIAL AUTHORITIES TO CONTINUE MAKING PROGRESS IN THE REVIEW OF THE JUDICIAL SYSTEM TO REORGANIZE IT IN A WAY THAT WILL ALLOW THE HONEST ADMINSTRATION OF JUSTICE TO DO AWAY WITH IMPUNITY.</p></body></html>