<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0498"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0498"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0498</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0498 (UMASS)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 20 SEP 89 (TASS) -- [TEXT] THE CENTRAL AMERICAN MASS MEDIA HAS REGARDED THE INTENTION OF SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI TO CONTINUE NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE EXISTING CONSTITUTION AS A DEVIATION FROM RECENT AGREEMENTS WITH THE REBELS.</p><p>THE INTENTION IS OUTLINED IN A STATEMENT MADE BY THE PRESIDENT IN REPSONSE TO THE REBEL PROPOSAL TO GIVE UP THE ARMED STRUGGLE AND JOIN THE POLITICAL LIFE IF THE ARMY CLEANS UP ITS RANKS, IF REPRESSIONS ARE STOPPED, ELECTIONS TO MUNICIPAL AND LEGISLATIVE BODIES ARE HELD EARLIER THAN 1991 AND IF THE ELECTION SYSTEM IS REFORMED.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE SALVADORAN MASS MEDIA, THIS PACKAGE OF PROPOSALS WILL BE DOMINATE THE FMLN TALKS WITH THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT IN COSTA RICA IN OCTOBER.</p><p>AT THE SAME TIME, THE SALVADORAN POLICE HAVE STAGED ANOTHER ACT OF VIOLENCE IN SAN SALVADOR. SPECIAL POLICE UNITS DISPERSED A DEMONSTRATION ORGANISED BY THE FEDERATION OF SALVADORAN TRADE UNIONS IN PROTEST AGAINST THE ARREST OF 12 ACTIVISTS OF WORKERS' AND PEASANT ORGANISATIONS. ABOUT 100 DEMONSTRATORS SHELTERED IN A CATHEDRAL. BUT, THE POLICE SMASHED THE CATHEDRAL'S WINDOWS AND SHOT TEAR GAS INTO THE BUILDING. POLICEMEN ALSO OPENED FIRE AND ARMY HELICOPTERS CIRCLED OVER THE CATHEDRAL.</p><p>DESPITE THE FACT THAT MANY PEOPLE INSIDE WERE WOUNDED, THE POLICE DID NOT ALLOW RED CROSS REPRESENTATIVES TO APPROACH THE CATHEDRAL, AS DEMONSTRATORS DEMANDED.</p><p>ABOUT 60 DEMONSTRATORS WERE FIRST BRUTALLY BEATEN AND THEN ARRESTED, THE SAN SALVADORAN MASS MEDIA SAID.</p></body></html>