<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0903"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0903"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0903</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0903 (GTE)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 29 NOV 89 (RADIO PEACE AND PROGRESS) -- [COMMENTARY] [ALEKSEY PAVLOV] [TEXT] SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI ANNOUNCED LAST SUNDAY THAT THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR HAS BROKEN DIPLOMATIC TIES WITH NICARAGUA. ANALYST ALEKSEY PAVLOV DISCUSSES THIS SUBJECT:</p><p>FOR THOSE WHO ARE FAMILIAR WITH CENTRAL AMERICAN ISSUES, THIS NEWS IS NO SURPRISE. GIVEN THE FAILURE OF THE NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND THE GUERRILLAS AS WELL AS THE RESUMPTION OF THE WAR, THE CRISTIANI ADMINISTRATION WAS PRESSURED BY CERTAIN U.S. CIRCLES TO BREAK RELATIONS WITH NICARAGUA.</p><p>THE [WORD INDISTINCT] MEDIA ARE CONDUCTING A CRUSADE TO CONVINCE THE PUBLIC THAT CUBA, NICARAGUA, AND CERTAINLY THE USSR, ARE PROVIDING WEAPONS TO THE [WORD INDISTINCT] REVOLUTIONARIES. THE UNITED STATES CERTAINLY PLAYS AN IMPORTANT ROLE IN THIS CAMPAIGN, AND SO HAS PRESIDENT CRISTIANI BY DECLARING THAT HE WILL NOT ATTEND THE REGIONAL PRESIDENTIAL SUMMIT SCHEDULED FOR DECEMBER IN MANAGUA.</p><p>APPARENTLY, CRISTIANI NEEDED TO BREAK RELATIONS WITH NICARAGUA IN ORDER NOT TO ATTEND TO THE SUMMIT. THIS IS COMPREHENSIBLE BECAUSE THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS ARE SUPPOSED TO DISCUSS THE COMPLIANCE WITH THE TELA AGREEMENTS, THE DISMANTLING OF THE CONTRAS, AND THE CONTINUATION OF PEACE TALKS IN EL SALVADOR. IN FACT, CRISTIANI WAS UNABLE TO JUSTIFY HIS REFUSAL TO ATTEND THIS SUMMIT.</p><p>THERE ARE OTHER REASONS WHY CRISTIANI WISHES TO USE THE BREAK WITH NICARAGUA AS A MASK. HE IS TRYING TO DISTRACT PUBLIC ATTENTION FROM THE SALVADORAN ARMY'S HEAVY BOMBINGS OF HEAVILY POPULATED AREAS, INCLUDING THE CAPITAL, AND THE REPRESSION AGAINST SALVADORAN RELIGIOUS AND LABOR ORGANIZATIONS.</p><p>IN OTHER TERMS, CRISTIANI WANTS TO CONCEAL THE FACT THAT HE CANNOT CONTROL THE EXCESSES COMMITTED BY HIS GENERALS; THAT IS, THE GENOCIDE THAT THE SALVADORAN ARMY IS PERPETRATING AGAINST ITS OWN PEOPLE. THE CRISTIANI ADMINISTRATION IS ALSO UNABLE TO CONTROL THE DEATH SQUADS WHICH ARE MURDERING PEOPLE WITH IMPUNITY.</p><p>IT IS REVEALING THAT SEVERAL DAYS BEFORE CRISTIANI DECLARED THE BREAK OF DIPLOMATIC TIES WITH NICARAGUA, NICARAGUAN EMBASSY STAFF IN SAN SALVADOR WERE EVACUATED HOME IN FACE OF THE DEATH THREATS BY THE DEATH SQUADS. IS THIS MERE COINCIDENCE? OF COURSE NOT. MOST PROBABLY THESE DEATH SQUADS RECEIVED ORDERS TO MAKE SUCH THREATS WITH A VIEW TOWARD THE DIPLOMATIC BREAK.</p><p>BY WHAT CAN BE SEEN, THE ACTION OF DEATH SQUADS IS COMMON PRACTICE FOR THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT. HOWEVER, THIS DIPLOMATIC BREAK IS A SERIOUS ACT FOR WHICH CRISTIANI IS LARGELY RESPONSIBLE. HONDURAN PRESIDENT JOSE AZCONA HOYO CONSIDERS THIS ACTION A GREAT DANGER TO PEACE IN THE ISTHMUS. THIS IS AN UNQUESTIONABLE FACT.</p></body></html>