<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0729"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0729"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0729</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0729 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 14 NOV 89 (CADENA REVOLUCIONARIA NACIONAL) -- [STATEMENT] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] [TEXT] PEACE IS POSSIBLE ONLY IF WE EVICT FROM POWER THOSE WHO HAVE PROFITED FROM WAR. CONSEQUENTLY, THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND:</p><p>1. ORDERS THAT ALL OUR UNITS MUST HOLD THE POSITIONS CONQUERED, ORGANIZE THE GENERAL UPRISING OF OUR PEOPLE, AND CARRY OUT ALL THE TASKS DEALING WITH THE POPULATION'S SECURITY AND DEFENSE AND THE COLLECTION OF FOOD AND ITS DISTRIBUTION TO THE NEEDY.</p><p>2. CALLS THE PEOPLE TO A GENERAL UPRISING SO THEY CAN JOIN US IN BATTLE IN EVERY POSSIBLE WAY WITH ALL TYPES OF WEAPONS TO DEFEND THEMSELVES AND STRIKE THE ENEMY.</p><p>3. ANNOUNCES THAT, EFFECTIVE AS SOON AS THIS MANIFESTO IS ANNOUNCED, WE DECLARE AS TERRITORIES LIBERATED BY THE PEOPLE ALL THE AREAS UNDER OUR CONTROL IN MORAZAN, SAN MIGUEL, LA UNION, USULUTAN, CUSCATLAN, CHALATENANGO, SAN VICENTE, AND CABANAS DEPARTMENTS. IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS, OUR FORCES AND THE PEOPLE WILL ORGANIZE POPULAR GOVERNMENTS IN EVERY MUNICIPALITY IN THESE DEPARTMENTS. SIMULTANEOUSLY, OUR FORCES THAT CONTROL TERRITORIES IN THE CITIES MUST INTENSIFY THE STRUGGLE TO ENSURE TOTAL CONTROL OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>4. URGES ALL THE WORKERS TO STOP WORKING AS PART OF THE GENERALIZED STRUGGLE, WHICH WILL HELP WEAKEN THE JANUARY GOVERNMENT AND WILL ENABLE ALL TO JOIN US IN COMBAT. THEREFORE, WE HEREBY ANNOUNCE THAT THE CURRENT TRANSPORTATION STOPPAGE, THE SABOTAGING OF THE ENERGY SUPPLY, AND THE CLOSING OF GASOLINE STATIONS WILL CONTINUE FOR AN INDEFINITE TIME. FOR THIS REASON, THE PEOPLE MUST PREPARE FOR THIS SITUATION. WE STERNLY WARN THOSE EMPLOYERS WHO FORCE THEIR WORKERS TO GO TO WORK THAT OUR FORCES HAVE BEEN INSTRUCTED TO IMPOSE OBEDIENCE TO THIS MEASURE.</p><p>5. ASKS THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY AND HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS TO SEND HELP TO THE CIVILIAN VICTIMS OF BOMBINGS AND CONTRIBUTE TO THE CREATION OF REFUGES AND CENTERS TO PROTECT THE POPULATION FROM THE CRIMINAL ACTIONS UNLEASHED BY CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES HIGH COMMAND.</p><p>6. URGENTLY CALLS ALL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL FORCES, POPULAR ORGANIZATIONS, AND PRIVATE BUSINESSMEN IN OUR COUNTRY TO ASSUME AT THIS TIME THE HISTORIC ROLE OF MAKERS AND BUILDERS OF A NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC SOLUTION THAT CAN BRING LASTING PEACE TO OUR COUNTRY.</p><p>7. MAKES A PATRIOTIC EXHORTATION TO OFFICERS AND THE RANK AND FILE OF THE ARMY NOT TO LET THE BIG BATCH [LA TANDONA, THE GRADUATING CLASS OF THE MAJORITY OF THE CURRENT ARMY STAFF MEMBERS], ARENA, AND THE U.S. INTERESTS LEAD THEM TO CONFRONT THE PEOPLE, THUS STAINING THEIR HANDS WITH BLOOD. THE FMLN DOES NOT REGARD THEM AS ENEMIES AND IS READY TO MAKE PEACE WITH THE ARMY SECTORS WHO DESIRE JUSTICE, SOVEREIGNTY, AND TRUE DEMOCRACY FOR OUR PEOPLE. THE ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE AND ALL OF OUR COUNTRY'S SOCIAL AND POLITICAL FORCES IS LA TANDONA, WHO HAVE ENRICHED THEMSELVES WITH WAR, AND THE ARENA DEATH SQUADS. THEY ARE THE ENEMIES OF PEACE AND DEMOCRACY. THEY ARE THE ONES WHO DO NOT WANT A REGIME OF JUSTICE. WE CALL ALL THE NATION TO FIGHT THEM SO WE CAN SING THE NATIONAL ANTHEM, WHICH THE TYRANNY HAS TRIED TO BURY, AND WHICH SAYS: FREEDOM IS ITS DOGMA AND GUIDELINE, WHICH IT HAS SWORN TO DEFEND A THOUSAND TIMES, AND JUST AS MANY TIMES, HAS SWORN TO REJECT THE HATEFUL POWER OF A BOLD TYRANNY.</p><p>[SIGNED] FMLN GENERAL COMMANDERS SALVADOR SANCHEZ SEREN, EDUARDO SANCHO, FRANCISCO JOVEL, SHAFIK JORGE HANDAL, JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS.</p><p>EL SALVADOR, 13 NOVEMBER 1989.</p></body></html>