<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0576"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0576"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0576</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0576 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 12 OCT 89 (RADIO MAGALLANES) -- [COMMENTARY] [CHILEAN JOURNALIST ROLANDO CARRASCO] [TEXT] WE HAD BEEN LEFT COMPLETELY ALONE AND ISOLATED FROM THE WORLD, THE POPULAR GOVERNMENT HAD BEEN OVERTHROWN, THE DICTATORSHIP HAD SCATTERED CONCENTRATION CAMPS AND ANONYMOUS DEAD AROUND THE COUNTRY, CONGRESS WAS CLOSED, ALL LEFTIST COMMUNICATION MEDIA WERE ALSO CLOSED, AND THE IMAGE OF THE DICTATORSHIP MONOPOLIZED THE TELEVISION SCREENS. PINOCHET NEEDED TO BE LEFT ALONE IN ORDER TO CONSOLIDATE HIS POWER BY MURDERING HIS OPPONENTS. AT THE SAME TIME, HE SENT MISSIONS ABROAD TO SEEK RECOGNITION AND SUPPORT.</p><p>IN THE FIRST DAYS IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE COUP, RADIO MOSCOW BEGAN TO BEAM PROGRAMS TO CHILE, AND I AM NOW TALKING TO YOU FROM ITS STUDIOS. VOLODIA TEITELBOIM, CURRENT SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE CHILEAN COMMUNIST PARTY, WAS BY CHANCE IN MOSCOW IN SEPTEMBER 1973, AND IT FELL TO HIM TO INITIATE THE PROGRAMS "LISTEN, CHILE" [ESCUCHA, CHILE] AND RADIO MAGALLANES OVER THE MICROPHONES OF RADIO MOSCOW. THE AUDIENCE OF THESE PROGRAMS SUDDENLY GREW INSIDE CHILE.</p><p>AT FIRST, THE PROGRAMS DENOUNCED THE ARBITRARY ACTION OF THE MILITARY REGIME. IT WAS DIFFICULT TO SMUGGLE NEWS OUT OF CHILE SO THAT IT COULD BE BROADCAST ALL OVER CHILE BY RADIO MOSCOW, BUT NEWS OF THE WORLD'S SOLIDARITY WAS BROADCAST NIGHT AFTER NIGHT TO CHILE. THUS, THE WALL OF SILENCE THE DICTATOR INTENDED TO RAISE AROUND HIM TO HIDE HIS CRIMES WAS CRACKED.</p><p>A TRADITION OF LISTENING RADIO MOSCOW PROGRAMS TO LATIN AMERICA WAS DEVELOPED IN CHILE AS ATTESTED BY THE MAIL THAT REACHED ITS STUDIOS. THE BULK OF MAIL FROM CHILE CONFIRMS THIS. SO IT WAS EASY TO SEE THAT THE MOSCOW TRANSMISSIONS WERE HELPING THE CAUSE OF THE PERSECUTED, THE WORKERS, THE STUDENTS, THE PRISONERS, THE MUZZLED DEMOCRATS, AND THE GRIEVING WIDOWS OF CHILE. THROUGH THESE TRANSMISSIONS, THOSE PEOPLE RECEIVED THE MESSAGE OF SUPPORT AN ENCOURAGEMENT SENT BY THE PEOPLES OF THE WORLD.</p><p>THE FIRST BROADCASTS WERE MADE IN THOSE YEARS, AND VERY FEW HAVE NOT LISTENED TO THEM AT SOME TIME, ALTHOUGH NOBODY ADMITTED TO KNOWLEDGE OF THOSE PROGRAMS. THE TYRANT HIMSELF VIOLENTLY ATTACKED THE PROGRAMS IN SEVERAL PUBLIC SPEECHES. NOT LONG AGO, PINOCHET'S FOREIGN MINISTER AGAIN SCATHINGLY REFERRED TO RADIO MOSCOW'S BROADCASTS. THAT IS TO SAY THAT THOSE PROGRAMS HAVE CONTINUED TO AFFECT THE DICTATORSHIP IN ONE WAY OR ANOTHER AND THAT THEY HAVE HELPED THE RESURGENCE OF THE DEMOCRATIC FORCES. THE RESURGENCE AND ORGANIZATION OF THE DEMOCRATIC FORCES THROUGH THE IMPETUS OF THE WORKERS AND BROAD SECTORS OF THE POPULATION HAVE RESHAPED THE CHILEAN POLITICAL SITUATION, TO THE POINT THAT WE ARE NOW APPROACHING THE REAL POSSIBILITY OF AN ELECTORAL TRIUMPH BY A SINGLE OPPOSITION CANDIDATE TO THE PRESIDENCY, THUS SETTING THE PROCESS OF TRANSITION IN MOTION.</p><p>IN FACT THE SITUATION NOT ONLY HAS CHANGED IN CHILE, BUT ALSO IN THE SOVIET UNION WHERE THE PERESTROYKA -- A REVOLUTIONARY PROCESS INSIDE A REVOLUTION -- HAS OPENED IMMENSE POSSIBILITIES FOR THE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL, AND POLITICAL DEVELOPMENT OF SOVIET SOCIETY. WE FREQUENTLY KEEP YOU ABREAST OF THESE DEVELOPMENTS IN THE PROGRAMS OF RADIO MOSCOW. SO, ALL THIS HAS GALVANIZED OUR DISPOSITION TO CONTINUE COOPERATING IN THIS PROCES THAT HAS REACHED NEW LEVELS.</p><p>OUR PROGRAMS CONTINUE TO BE OPEN AND AT THE DISPOSAL OF ALL ADVANCE FORCES THAT MARCH WITH THE DEMOCRATS. A FEW WEEKS AGO, RADIO MOSCOW COMPLETED 16 YEARS OF BROADCAST TO CHILE. NOW, ON 29 OCTOBER RADIO MOSCOW WILL CELEBRATE ITS 60TH ANNIVERSARY. ALL THE PEOPLES OF THE WORLD KNOW THE PROGRAMS OF RADIO MOSCOW IN 81 LANGUAGES. THE PROGRAMS TO CHILE HAVE A PRIVILEGED PLACE AMONG THEM. FOR THE OCCASION, GREETINGS HAVE BEEN SENT TO THE PROGRAMS OF RADIO MOSCOW AND RADIO MAGALLANES. FROM CHILEANS SCATTERED IN 40 COUNTRIES BY THE FASCIST EXPLOSION, RADIO MOSCOW ALSO RECEIVES MAIL AND POSTCARD WITH MESSAGES OF APPRECIATION AND THANKS. THIS IS A MODEST WAY OF RESPONDING TO THE VALUABLE ASSISTANCE RADIO MOSCOW HAS GIVEN, IS GIVING, AND WILL CONTINUE TO GIVE US.</p><p>WE HAD BEEN LEFT ALONE, ISOLATED FROM THE WORLD, AND RADIO MOSCOW PROVED TO BE OUR FRIEND DURING SHAMEFUL TIMES. GOOD NIGHT.</p></body></html>