<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0941"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0941"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0941</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0941 (SRI)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 6 DEC 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF OF THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES, BY UNIDENTIFIED SALVADORAN AND INTERNATIONAL REPORTERS] [TEXT] [PONCE, IN PROGRESS] ...THE OFFENSIVE OF THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] AS OF 11 NOVEMBER HAS BEEN MILITARILY DEFEATED HERE IN THE CITY OF SAN SALVADOR, AS WELL AS IN SAN MIGUEL, USULUTAN, AND ZACATECOLUCA, WHERE THERE WAS GREATER ACTIVITY BY THE SUBVERSIVES. LOGICALLY, AFTER BEING REJECTED SO MUCH, AFTER HAVING LOST SO MANY FIGTHERS AND WAR MATERIEL, THEY DO NOT HAVE THE CAPABILITY TO AGAIN LAUNCH AN OPERATION LIKE THEY DID ON 11 NOVEMBER. THEY WILL CONTINUE WITH INDISCRIMINATE TERRORISM AND SELECTIVE TERRORISM. WE HAVE HERE SOME OF THE FIRST EVIDENCE. FOR EXAMPLE, THE MURDER OF A PERSON USEFUL TO SALVADORAN SOCIETY LIKE DR GUERRERO, THE ACTS OF SABOTAGE AGAINST THE ELECTRICITY SYSTEM, THE DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION. WE CAN ALSO MENTION THE DESTRUCTION OF SOME GASOLINE STATIONS. BASICALLY, WHAT THEY SEEK IS TO SYSTEMATICALLY DESTROY THE ECONOMY OF THE COUNTRY, TO PROVOKE THE CLOSING OF SOME INDUSTRIAL CENTERS, AND TO BRING ABOUT ECONOMIC CHAOS.</p><p>THAT IS WHY, EVEN THOUGH WE BELIEVED WE WERE TAKING RISKS IN THE MILITARY FIELD OF NATIONAL DEFENSE, THE ARMED FORCES CHANGED THE CURFEW HOURS, SO THAT CURFEW HOURS ARE NOW FROM 2300 TO 0500. WE DID THIS BELIEVING THAT THE ECONOMIC ASPECT IS VERY IMPORTANT FOR THE COUNTRY, AND THAT IS WHY WE WANT TO BENEFIT THE INDUSTRIAL, BUSINESS, AND FARMING SECTORS, SO THAT THEY WILL BE ABLE TO CARRY OUT THEIR ACTIVITIES UNDER ALMOST NORMAL CONDITIONS.</p><p>WE ALSO CONSIDERED THAT THIS TIME OF THE YEAR WE ARE PICKING COFFEE AND COTTON AND HARVESTING SUGARCANE, AND THESE ARE THE THREE MAIN STAPLES OF OUR ECONOMY. THESE ACTIVITIES ARE MAINLY CARRIED OUT IN THE EVENING, AND THAT IS WHY WE HAVE CHANGED THE CURFEW HOURS TO BENEFIT BUSINESSMEN, WORKERS, AND FARMERS SO THEY CAN SUPPORT THEIR FAMILIES.</p><p>[REPORTER] COLONEL, DOES THE PRESIDENT THINK THAT DURING THE COSTA RICAN MEETING ENOUGH PRESSURE CAN BE EXERTED ON NICARAGUA SO THAT IT WILL SUSPEND ASSISTANCE TO THE FMLN AND THE WAR WILL DIMINISH IN THE COUNTRY?</p><p>[PONCE] THE CYNICISM OF THE DICTATOR ORTEGA OF THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN FULLY PROVEN. IN THE PREVIOUS MEETINGS WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF ESQUIPULAS II, HE COMMITTED HIMSELF TO DISCONTINUING SUPPORT FOR THE FMLN. THIS TOTAL WAR OFFENSIVE THAT HAS BEEN INFLICTED UPON THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE SHOULD BE SUSPENDED, BECAUSE WE ARE SURE THAT THE MOMENT NICARAGUA AND CUBA -- IT IS THROUGH THOSE COUNTRIES, RATHER THOSE GOVERNMENTS THAT THE COMMUNIST BLOC HAS BEEN HELPING THE FMLN -- THE FMLN WOULD WEAKEN TREMENDOUSLY. [SENTENCE AS HEARD]</p><p>AS A MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES, AS A MEMBER OF THE HIGH COMMAND, I FEEL VERY PROUD ABOUT THE PROFESSIONAL, DETERMINED, AND COURAGEOUS ATTITUDE WITH WHICH THE OFFICERS, NON-COMMISSIONED OFFICERS, AND TROOPS OF OUR ARMED FORCES HAVE NEUTRALIZED AND DEFEATED THE FMLN OFFENSIVE. IN THIS REGARD, I BELIEVE THAT THE OPINIONS VOICED BY GENERAL THURMAN ARE NOT REALLY IN LINE WITH WHAT WE HAVE LIVED HERE INSIDE THE COUNTRY. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>