<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1113"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1113"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1113</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1113 (UNISYS)</p><p>NO CITY, NO DATE -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH PERUVIAN PRESIDENT GARCIA BY AMAT AND AN UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [GARCIA] THE DEBT AND ITS INTEREST HAVE STEADILY GROWN, BUT THE VALUE OF OUR PRODUCTION HAS DECREASED, SO IT HAS BECOME INCREASINGLY IMPOSSIBLE TO PAY THE DEBT. THEREFORE, WE ARE FACED WITH THE SAME OLD STORY: LEND ME 100 MILLION AND I WILL PAY YOU 110 MILLION AND STILL OWE YOU 120 MILLION WITH THE NEW INTEREST. THIS ROTATION OF CREDIT DOES NOT PRODUCE ANY MATERIAL ASSETS LIKE RAW MATERIALS AND ASSEMBLY PLANTS DID IN THE PAST.</p><p>CONSEQUENTLY, THIS RELATION IS NO LONGER FEASIBLE; IT IS USELESS. WE HAVE BECOME INCREASINGLY POOR, AND WE OWE MORE AND MORE. WHY NOT CHANGE TO MORE RATIONAL RELATIONS LIKE IS BEING DONE BY CIVILIZED PERSONS WHO KNOW HOW TALK MULTILATERALLY? WE WOULD THUS ELIMINATE THE FOREIGN DEBT PROBLEM, WHICH NO ONE WILL BE ABLE TO PAY AND, CONSEQUENTLY, NO ONE WILL BE ABLE TO COLLECT. THAT IS WHAT WE ARE TALKING ABOUT.</p><p>FINANCIAL CAPITALISM NO LONGER PRODUCES MATERIAL ASSETS AND DOES NOT GENERATE ANYTHING -- BUT IT CERTAINLY CONTINUES TO IMPOVERISH US -- SO AN ENORMOUS FINANCIAL AND TECHNOLOGICAL FORCE IS ACCUMULATING IN THE UNITED STATES, EUROPE, AND JAPAN. THEY HAVE NO ONE TO SELL IT TO BECAUSE WE HAVE BECOME INCREASINGLY POOR. SUDDENLY THEY HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY IN EASTERN EUROPE AND THEY ARE THERE, FULL OF ILLUSIONS ABOUT CREATING NEW MARKETS IN THAT AREA -- AND THEY HAVE FORGOTTEN ABOUT LATIN AMERICA, WHICH PURCHASED MACHINERY FROM THE UNITED STATES AND EUROPE FOR 50 YEARS.</p><p>I THINK THAT IS UNJUST AND SHOULD BE DISCUSSED AS A WHOLE. THE UNITED STATES HAS... CHANGES THOUGHT WHAT MORE DOES IT WANT, IF IT HAS THE RESOURCES THAT IT NO LONGER SPENDS ON ATOMIC BOMBS OR ON MEN AND WEAPONS IN EUROPE? IT HAS TO INVEST THOSE RESOURCES SO THAT THEY MAY YIELD SOMETHING. WHERE? IN POLAND? IN CZECHOSLOVAKIA? WHY? WHY NOT IN LATIN AMERICA? WE ARE HERE AND WE HAVE COMMON PROBLEMS LIKE DRUG TRAFFICKING. THAT IS WHAT WE HAVE TO DISCUSS.</p><p>[AMAT] WHAT ARE PERU'S REVENUES, IN DOLLARS, FOR THE COCA CROPS?</p><p>[GARCIA] THE MOST CONSERVATIVE ESTIMATE IS APPROXIMATELY $700 MILLION.</p><p>[AMAT] WITH WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO REPLACE THAT $700 MILLION IF THE COCA CROPS ARE ABOLISHED?</p><p>[GARCIA] THAT IS THE CRUX OF THE PROBLEM AND THAT IS WHY WE CAME TO TALK. IT IS OBVIOUS, IT IS TRUE THAT I HAVE AN ETHICAL AND MORAL OBLIGATION TO END IT, BUT IT IS ALSO TRUE THAT I HAVE TO ELIMINATE THE PEASANTS' COCA CROPS TO ACHIEVE THIS.</p><p>[AMAT] MR. PRESIDENT, WHAT ABOUT THE PEASANTS OF PERU AND BOLIVIA? COLOMBIA'S CASE IS DIFFERENT BECAUSE COCA IS PROCESSED HERE. WOULD THE PEASANTS BE WILLING TO CHANGE THOSE CROPS FOR OTHERS?</p><p>[GARCIA] IF THEY ARE GIVEN A LONG-TERM GUARANTEE, YES.</p><p>[AMAT] BUT WOULD THEY CHANGE COCA FOR TOMATOES, ORANGES, AND CACAO?</p><p>[GARCIA] IT IS NOT EASY TO CHANGE IT FOR COFFEE, TOBACCO, CACAO, ANNATTO, OR PALM TREES. THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAS STUDIED ALL THIS. I HAVE A 600-PAGE REPORT FROM THE U.S. GOVERNMENT THAT DISCUSSES THE ALTERNATIVES FOR REPLACING THE 80,000 HECTARES IN THE GUAYAGA VALLEY -- WHICH IS THE LARGEST COCA-PRODUCING AREA IN THE COUNTRY. IT WOULD COST $600 MILLION TO INDUSTRIALIZE THE AREA ON A LONG-TERM BASIS.</p><p>[AMAT] BUT, MR. PRESIDENT, COCA PRACTICALLY GROWS WILD; IT DOES NOT REQUIRE MUCH WORK IN THE COUNTRYSIDE. HOW CAN A GOVERNMENT LIKE YOURS CONVINCE A FARMER TO INVEST MUCH MORE MONEY IN A PRODUCT THAT WOULD BE MUCH LESS PROFITABLE?</p><p>[REPORTER] LET ME ADD SOMETHING TO THAT...</p><p>[GARCIA, INTERRUPTING] EXCUSE ME. IT IS A VICIOUS CIRCLE. THE PEASANT PRODUCES COCA BECAUSE HE HAS NO MONEY. I WILL NOT ASK HIM TO INVEST MONEY HE DOES NOT HAVE TO CHANGE THE PRODUCT. THE UNITED STATES HAS TO BUY THE NEW PRODUCT TO ACHIEVE THIS. THE UNITED STATES HAS TO GUARANTEE THAT IT WILL BUY THE PRODUCT. LOOK, HOW MANY TRILLIONS DOES THE UNITED STATES BUY AS IMPORTS IN OTHER COUNTRIES? A FRACTION OF THIS WOULD CHANGE THE DESTINY OF COLOMBIA, PERU, AND BOLIVIA.</p><p>THE UNITED STATES SHOULD SAY: IF I BUY $600 BILLION IN PRODUCTS ABROAD, I WILL BUY $10 BILLION -- OF ANYTHING -- IN PERU, COLOMBIA, AND BOLIVIA. IT COULD BE TOMATOES, PALM OIL, COFFEE, CHOCOLATE BARS, ANYTHING. THIS WOULD CHANGE THE HISTORY OF THESE COUNTRIES. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>