<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1047"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1047"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY (EL SALVADOR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1047</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1047 (TRW)</p><p>NO CITY (EL SALVADOR), NO DATE -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] NOW THAT THE INVESTIGATION HAS ADVANCED TO A SIGNIFICANT POINT, I BELIEVE THE TIME IS RIGHT TO SAY THAT THE RESULTS OBTAINED THUS FAR RESPOND TO THE WIDESPREAD OUTCRY OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE - - IN THE SENSE THAT THOSE CHARGED WITH CRIMINAL ACTIONS STAND TRIAL SO CRIMINALS ARE NOT LEFT UNPUNISHED. THIS IS THE COMMITMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC AND THE ARMED FORCES. HOWEVER, IT IS WISE TO CLARIFY THAT, IN THE SAME MANNER THAT PEOPLE HAVE MADE DEMANDS AND CONDEMNED THE CASE AT ISSUE TODAY, ACTIONS RESULTING FROM THE WAVE OF FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] TERRORIST VIOLENCE SHOULD ALSO BE CONDEMNED AND PUNISHED WITH THE SAME VEHEMENCE.</p><p>IN THE SAME MANNER, AGAIN WE WANT TO URGE ALL SALVADORANS TO ABSTAIN FROM SPECULATING OVER THESE REGRETTABLE INCIDENTS, BECAUSE THAT WILL ONLY HINDER THE JUDICIAL PROCESS. IT IS NECESSARY THAT LAW AND JUSTICE PREVAIL IN OUR COUNTRY, SO THAT NO ONE TRAMPLES ON THEM.</p><p>IN REGARD TO THIS INVESTIGATION, WE WISH TO REAFFIRM THAT AN OBJECTIVITY HAS PREVAILED AT ALL TIMES, AND THAT THE ACCUSED WILL BE SENT TO THE PERTINENT COURT SO THAT THEY STAND TRIAL ACCORDING TO THE MECHANISMS ESTABLISHED IN THE CONSTITUTION AND IN OTHER LAWS.</p><p>IN CONCLUSION, WE WANT TO TELL THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE THAT, ALTHOUGH IT IS TRUE THIS IS A REGRETTABLE INCIDENT, WE MUST ACCEPT IT AS AN UNAVOIDABLE REALITY AND AS EVIDENCE TO THE WORLD THAT WE SALVADORANS AND OUR INSTITUTIONS HAVE A HIGH SENSE OF JUSTICE, MORALITY, AND ETHICS.</p><p>AS COMMANDER OF THE ARMED FORCES, I WANT TO CONGRATULATE ALL ITS MEMBERS FOR THEIR PROFESSIONALISM, DEDICATION, AND EXEMPLARY CONDUCT, EVIDENCED NOT ONLY IN VIEW OF THIS INCIDENT, BUT ALSO BY HALTING -- IN DEFENSE OF DEMOCRACY AND PEACE -- THE FMLN TERRORIST AGGRESSION. THAT BRILLIANT HISTORIC EVENT WILL ALWAYS BE PRESENT IN THE HEARTS OF OUR PEOPLE, WHO WILL RENDER HOMAGE TO THE ARMED FORCES FOR HAVING PROTECTED THE FREEDOM OF OUR FUTURE GENERATIONS.</p><p>THANK YOU VERY MUCH. MAY GOD BLESS YOU.</p></body></html>