<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0557"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0557"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0557</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0557 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>LIMA, 8 OCT 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT HAS ESTABLISHED UNPRECEDENTED SECURITY MEASURES TO GUARANTEE THE SAFETY OF THE GROUP OF EIGHT PRESIDENTS AND FOREIGN MINISTERS WHO WILL BEGIN MEETING ON 9 OCTOBER IN TRUJILLO, THE COUNTRY'S THIRD-LARGEST CITY, 570 KM NORTH OF LIMA.</p><p>ACCORDING TO MEDIA REPORTS, SOME 15,000 OFFICERS, INCLUDING POLICE, ARMY, NAVY, AND AIR FORCE PERSONNEL, WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR SECURITY AT TRUJILLO AND ICA, 300 KM SOUTH OF LIMA.</p><p>ARGENTINE PRESIDENT CARLOS MENEM, BRAZILIAN PRESIDENT JOSE SARNEY, COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO, URUGUAYAN PRESIDENT JULIO MARIA SANGUINETTI, MEXICAN PRESIDENT CARLOS SALINAS, VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ, AND PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA WILL MEET AT THE "LAS DUNAS" HOTEL IN ICA 11-12 OCTOBER. HOTEL WORKERS AND EMPLOYEES HAVE BEEN REPLACED AS A PREVENTIVE MEASURE.</p><p>THE PRESIDENTS OF PERU, COLOMBIA, AND BOLIVIA WILL ALSO BE MEETING IN ICA ON 10 OCTOBER TO ANALYZE THE PROBLEM OF DRUG TRAFFICKING, WHICH AFFECTS THEIR COUNTRIES ESPECIALLY.</p><p>THIS MEETING WAS ORIGINALLY PLANNED FOR PARACAS, A TOWN NEAR ICA, BUT WAS MOVED TO ICA FOR SECURITY REASONS.</p><p>THE NATIONAL POLICE HAVE BEEN CONFINED TO BARRACKS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY SINCE LAST NIGHT BECAUSE, ACCORDING TO SOURCES, IT IS EXPECTED THAT THE SHINING PATH AND THE TUPAC AMARU REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT (MRTA) WILL TRY TO STAGE VIOLENT ACTS DURING THE MEETINGS.</p><p>THE GUARDS AROUND THE EMBASSIES OF THE GROUP OF EIGHT COUNTRIES HAVE BEEN REINFORCED WITH POLICE DOGS TRAINED TO DETECT EXPLOSIVES.</p><p>POLICE HAVE ALSO ARRESTED THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE IN LIMA TO CHECK ON ANY POSSIBLE CONNECTIONS TO GUERRILLA MOVEMENTS OR TO SEE IF THEY HAVE ACCOUNTS TO SETTLE WITH THE COURTS.</p><p>THE ROUNDUPS ARE ALSO BEING CARRIED OUT TO FIND LOCAL TELEVISION MAGNATE HECTOR DELGADO PARKER, WHO WAS APPARENTLY KIDNAPPED BY THE MRTA DURING AN INCIDENT IN WHICH DELGADO'S DRIVER WAS KILLED AND HIS BODYGUARD WOUNDED.</p><p>THE KIDNAPPING WAS CARRIED OUT BY A GROUP OF PEOPLE, TWO OF WHOM WERE DRESSED IN POLICE UNIFORMS, IN THE STREETS OF LIMA ON 4 OCTOBER.</p><p>NEWSPAPER SOURCES TODAY SAID THAT AN ALLEGED LIEUTENANT TO MRTA CHIEF VICTOR POLAY, WHO HAS BEEN IN PRISON SINCE DECEMBER 1988, HAS ALSO BEEN ARRESTED.</p></body></html>