<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0587"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0587"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0587</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0587 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 20 OCT 89 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [SPEECH] [SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI] [TEXT] ...WHICH IS THE OVERALL RESULT, BUT ALSO ANALYZED THE MANNER IN WHICH THIS MEETING WAS HELD BECAUSE WE BELIEVE, AND WE HAVE ALWAYS BELIEVED, THAT THE PEOPLE MUST BE INFORMED, THE PEOPLE MUST KNOW THE TRUTH. INITIALLY, THIS SECOND MEETING WITH THE FMLN IS A FOLLOWUP TO THE MEXICO ACCORD IN SEPTEMBER.</p><p>WE WANT TO BEGIN BY BRIEFLY EXPLAINING WHAT THE MEXICO ACCORD WAS, PARTICULARLY WHAT WE AGREED TO DISCUSS IN THE MEETING IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA. WE HAVE HERE THE TEXT OF THE MEXICO ACCORD, AND IN THE CHAPTER CONCERNING THE NEXT MEETING IT SAYS: THE TOPIC OF DISCUSSION WILL BE THE END OF HOSTILITIES, BASED ON PROPOSALS BY THE GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT].</p><p>IN VIEW OF THE MEXICO ACCORD, OUR DELEGATION BEGAN TO WORK ON A PROPOSAL THAT WOULD MAKE EVERY POSSIBLE EFFORT TO OUTLINE WHAT COULD BE AN END TO HOSTILITIES. WHY HAVE WE INSISTED ON THIS TOPIC? BECAUSE WE WANT AN END TO VIOLENCE IN OUR COUNTRY, THE END OF WEAPONS FIRING, THE END OF BOMB EXPLOSIONS, THE END OF MINES MUTILATING THE LITTLE HANDS AND FEET OF CHILDREN IN RURAL AREAS. WE WANT TO SEE AN END TO THE DESTRUCTION OF EL SALVADOR, AND AN ATMOSPHERE OF CORDIALITY AND TRANQUILITY WITH GREATER POSSIBILITIES FOR THE DIALOGUE PROCESS.</p><p>THAT IS THE PHILOSPHY, BECAUSE WE BELIEVE THAT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, AND EACH ONE OF YOU AS PART OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, DO NOT DESERVE THIS VIOLENT SITUATION, THIS HOSTILE SITUATION GENERATED BY THE ARMED GROUPS OF THE FMLN.</p><p>THE PROPOSAL IS ALSO BASED ON THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PEACE PLAN, ESQUIPULAS II, AND THE SUBSEQUENT AGREEMENTS SIGNED BY THE FIVE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS. I WOULD LIKE TO RECALL THE TELA AGREEMENT, THE LAST AGREEMENT. IN PART III, THE AGREEMENT READS AS FOLLOWS:</p><p>THE FMLN IS STRONGLY URGED TO END HOSTILITIES IN AN IMMEDIATE AND EFFECTIVE MANNER TO HOLD A DIALOGUE THAT WILL LEAD TO GIVING UP THE ARMED STRUGGLE; THE FMLN MEMBERS WILL RETURN TO DEMOCRATIC LIFE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>