<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1243"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1243"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1243</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1243 (BOEING)</p><p>BOGOTA, 27 APR 90 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [STATEMENT] [LIBERAL PARTY PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE CESAR GAVIRIA TRUJILLO] [TEXT] COLOMBIANS, DURING THESE MONTHS OF NATIONAL TRAGEDY WE HAVE BEEN HIT BY EVENTS OVER AND OVER AGAIN. VIOLENCE STRIKES THE HEARTS OF OUR INSTITUTIONS, VALUES, DEMOCRACY, AND OUR BEST MEN. THE ULTIMATE GOAL OF THOSE ENGAGED IN VIOLENCE IS TO PREVENT DEMOCRACY FROM FUNCTIONING. THAT IS WHY THEY HAVE UNLEASHED THEIR EVIL AGAINST OPTIONS FOR CHANGES THAT COULD STRENGTHEN DEMOCRACY AND PREVENT VIOLENCE IN COLOMBIA. BRAVE COLOMBIANS HAVE BEEN MURDERED, ONE BY ONE. THEIR EXISTENCE WAS A THREAT TO THE SURVIVAL OF VIOLENT PRACTICES. IT IS NOT A COINCIDENCE THAT DURING THE CURRENT ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN THREE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES HAVE BEEN MURDERED. IT IS NOT A COINCIDENCE EITHER THAT OTHER BRAVE MINDS THAT ADVOCATED REFORM HAD BEEN KILLED BEFORE IN THAT STRUGGLE.</p><p>RODRIGO LARA, WHO WAS MURDERED SIX YEARS ON 23 APRIL, WAS THE FIRST TO DENOUNCE THE GRAVE EFFECTS OF DRUG TRAFFICKING ON THE STABILITY OF OUR INSTITUTIONS. THOSE WHO KILLED HIM WANTED TO OPEN PATHS FOR THE SO-CALLED CRIME TOLERANCE.</p><p>GUILLERMO CANO, A BRAVE NEWSMAN, REPRESENTED A FREE, CRITICAL PRESS, SUCH AS IS NEEDED IN A TRUE DEMOCRACY. HIS KILLERS THOUGHT THAT BY DROWNING OUT HIS VOICE THEY WOULD INTIMIDATE THE DEFENDERS OF FREEDOM OF SPEECH.</p><p>LUIS CARLOS GALAN WAS KILLED EIGHT MONTHS AGO. BY KILLING HIM, THEY SOUGHT TO ASSASSINATE A HOPE OF RENOVATION AND CHANGE AND A DEEP CONVICTION FOR THE NEED TO RADICALLY TRANSFORM POLITICAL HABITS AND THE CLIMATE OF CORRUPTION, IMMORALITY, AND INDIFFERENCE IN THE FACE OF CRIME. THIS INDIFFERENCE LED TO THE EMERGENCE OF THE GREAT EVILS THAT ARE CAUSING BLOODSHED IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>BERNARDO JARAMILLO STRUGGLED FOR A PEACEFUL, DEMOCRATIC LEFT THAT REJECTED ARMED STRUGGLE AND THAT WANTED TO BUILD A MORE JUST SOCIETY. BY KILLING HIM, THE CRIMINALS SOUGHT TO BLOCK THE PATHS TO LEGITIMATE PROTEST WITHIN THE LAW.</p><p>CARLOS PIZARRO, THE LAST LINK IN THIS MACABRE CHAIN THAT INCLUDES SO MANY OTHERS, REPRESENTED THE POSSIBILITY FOR GUERRILLA GROUPS TO LAY DOWN THEIR WEAPONS AND JOIN INSTITUTIONAL POLITICS, OR FOR WEAPONS TO BE REPLACED BY LEGAL INSTRUMENTS TO STRUGGLE FOR LEGITIMATE IDEALS. BY KILLING HIM IN A DASTARDLY AND COWARDLY MANNER YESTERDAY, THEY SOUGHT TO DESTROY THE PROCESS OF RECONCILIATION AND REINCORPORATION OF ARMED GROUPS INTO CIVIL LIFE.</p><p>THE DEATH OF OUR COUNTRYMEN SHOULD NOT BE IN VAIN. IT STRIKES DEEP IN OUR HEARTS. IT AFFECTS THE SPIRIT PROFOUNDLY. IT MUST, THEREFORE, AWAKEN THE NATIONAL CONSCIENCE, BECAUSE THOSE CRIMES ARE NOT MERELY VILE CRIMES AGAINST UNARMED GREAT MEN WHO BELIEVED IN THE STRENGTH OF IDEALS. THESE HAVE BEEN CRIMES AGAINST OUR BASIC VALUES, AGAINST THE CLEAN IDEALS OF PROGRESS AND PEACE THAT THESE MEN REPRESENTED. WE MUST NOT BE MISTAKEN. THOSE WHO KILLED OUR LEADERS DID NOT EXTINGUISH THE NOBLE CAUSE FOR WHICH THEY GAVE THEIR LIVES. THEIR VALUES WILL PREVAIL. THEY ARE OUR VALUES. THEIR HOPES STILL LIVE. THOSE HOPES BELONG TO ALL COLOMBIANS. THEIR DREAM WILL NEVER DISAPPEAR. IT IS THE DREAM WE ALL HAVE OF ATTAINING PEACE AND PROSPERITY. THAT IS WHY I PRAISE WHAT ANTONIO NAVARRO SAID LAST NIGHT: "I INVITE THE M-19 [19 APRIL MOVEMENT] TO CONTINUE WALKING ALONG THE PATH THAT PIZARRO CHARTED. TERRORISM'S GOAL HAS BEEN TO CLOSE THE PATHS TO CHANGE, RENOVATION, AND REFORM.</p><p>OUR PATH, ON THE CONTRARY, IS TO MAKE PEACEFUL, DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTION VIABLE. IT IS A REVOLUTION OF HOPE. THIS DEEP CRISIS WILL NOT BE SOLVED BY RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS IMPOSED ON THE INSTRUMENTS OF DEMOCRACY, BUT BY UNITING EFFORTS OF ALL GOOD COLOMBIANS TO REPAIR THE ROADS TO CHANGE, RENOVATION, AND REFORM. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>