<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0565"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0565"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0565</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0565 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 10 OCT 89 (CANAL SEIS TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] SEVERAL SALVADORAN SECTORS HAVE CONDEMNED THE MURDER OF THE WIFE OF THE DEPUTY EDITOR OF EL DIARIO DE HOY. SHE WAS RIDDLED WITH BULLETS NEAR THE CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY THIS MORNING. SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI HAS DESCRIBED THE ACTION AS TERRORIST. HE SAID THIS IS A FLAGRANT VIOLATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS, WHICH WILL SURELY ALSO BE CONDEMNED BY THE UN HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS, PASTOR RIBREJO, WHO IS IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CRISTIANI] THE LAST STRAW IS THAT TERRORISTS, WITHOUT ANY RISK TO THEMSELVES, KILL DEFENSELESS WOMEN. THIS PARTICULAR LADY WAS ACCOMPANIED BY HER CHILDREN, ONE OF WHOM WAS WOUNDED. WE THINK THIS IS THE LIMIT. WE ARE NOT SURE WHO DID IT, BUT, CONSIDERING THE NATURE OF THE ACTION, IT APPEARS TO BE A TERRORIST CRIME. WE ALREADY KNOW WHO PERPETRATES SUCH ACTIONS. WE THINK THIS IS PART OF WHAT THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] HAS BEEN DOING. THEY HAVE BEEN SILENCING VOICES THAT UPHOLD PHILOSOPHIES THAT RUN CONTRARY TO THEIR'S. [END RECORDING]</p><p>REFERRING TO THE PRESENCE OF PASTOR RIBREJO IN THE COUNTRY, CRISTIANI SAID THE UN OFFICIAL WILL BE ABLE TO CONFIRM THAT THE POLICY OF THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND ARMED FORCES DOES NOT FIT THE VIOLATION OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CRISTIANI] I WILL NOT REFER TO MONSIGNOR ARTURO RIVERA Y DAMAS ALONE, BUT TO ALL OF THE ORGANIZATIONS LINKED TO THE FMLN THAT HAVE BEEN TRYING TO DISCREDIT THE GOVERNMENT. I THINK DR RIBREJO WILL BE ABLE TO CONFIRM THAT NEITHER THE GOVERNMENT NOR THE ARMED FORCES ARE IN THE HABIT OF VIOLATING HUMAN RIGHTS. I THINK IF ONE TRIES TO BE OBJECTIVE AND REALISTIC, HE WILL REALIZE THAT THE FMLN HAS BEEN TRYING TO MAKE THE HOMELAND FALL INTO A STATE OF TOTAL ANARCHY. I THINK THE ARMED FORCES HAVE ACTED VERY PROFESSIONALLY. THE GOVERNMENT'S POLICY HAS BEEN TO TRY TO SEEK SOLUTIONS THROUGH REASON RATHER THAN VIOLENCE. THESE EVENTS MUST BE SEEN IN THE LIGHT OF WHAT THE FMLN SAID IT WOULD DO. IT SAID IT WOULD UNLEASH EVEN GREATER VIOLENCE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>AS FOR THE UPCOMING DIALOGUE MEETING TO BE HELD IN SAN JOSE ON 16 AND 17 OCTOBER, CRISTIANI SAID A COMMISSION IS READY TO RESUME TALKS WITH THE FMLN, TO WHICH A CEASE-FIRE WILL BE PROPOSED, AMONG OTHER THINGS. CRISTIANI SAID THAT THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT HAS REPORTED WORKING ON THE LOGISTICS OF THE MEETING SO THE TALKS CAN BE HELD IN PEACE.</p></body></html>