<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0969"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0969"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0969</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0969 (SRI)</p><p>MANAGUA, 20 MAR 89 -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] THE MURDER OF THREE JOURNALISTS IN EL SALVADOR YESTERDAY ONCE AGAIN SHOWS THE REPRESSIVE AND CRIMINAL NATURE OF THE SALVADORAN ARMY.</p><p>THOSE ACTIONS AGAINST OUR PRESS COLLEAGUES ARE ONLY COMPARABLE WITH ACTIONS CARRIED OUT BY THE ARMIES IN CHILE, PARAGUAY, AND OTHER MILITARY DICTATORSHIPS. THE SOMOZIST ARMY COMMITTED SIMILAR CRIMES IN NICARAGUA. WE JUST HAVE TO REMEMBER THE COLD WAY IN WHICH U.S. JOURNALIST BILL STEWART WAS KILLED WHILE COVERING THE LAST PHASE OF THE INSURRECTION IN MANAGUA'S WESTERN NEIGHBORHOODS.</p><p>IN EL SALVADOR, FOREIGN AND NATIONAL JOURNALISTS ARE DEMANDING A SERIOUS INVESTIGATION FROM PRESIDENT DUARTE'S GOVERNMENT TO PUNISH THE MILITARY MEN RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CRIME. WILL THE ARMY'S HIGH COMMAND BE WILLING TO CONDUCT THE INVESTIGATION? WE DOUBT IT, BASED ON ITS LACK OF WILLINGNESS TO RECTIFY THINGS IN THE PAST REGARDING OTHER CASES, SUCH AS THE ASSASSINATION OF MSGR ROMERO AND THE MURDER OF HERBERT ANAYA, PRESIDENT OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION. AFTER ALL, THAT IS THE WAY IN WHICH NAPOLEON DUARTE'S CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT RESTRAINS FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION IN HIS COUNTRY. MORE THAN 11 JOURNALISTS HAVE BEEN KILLED BY THE SALVADORAN ARMY SINCE 1981.</p><p>MEANWHILE, IN NICARAGUA, JOURNALISTS FROM INDEPENDENT MEDIA ARE CONCERNED ABOUT 39 FORMER SOMOZIST GUARDS WHO ARE STILL IN JAIL BECAUSE OF THEIR CRIMINAL RECORDS, TO THE POINT OF LAUNCHING JOURNALISTIC CAMPAIGNS DEMANDING FROM THE GOVERNMENT THE RELEASE OF THE HARMLESS PIGEONS.</p><p>WHAT WILL THEY SAY NOW ABOUT THE SALVADORAN ARMY, WHICH MURDERED THEIR COLLEAGUES WHO WERE COMPLYING WITH THEIR DUTY TO INFORM THE PUBLIC? WILL THEY DEFEND THEM AS THEY DEFENDED THE SOMOZIST GUARDS? THEY PROBABLY WILL. THEY WILL TRY TO PLAY DOWN THE ACTION, BECAUSE THEY HAVE LOST THEIR DIGNITY, GOOD SENSE, AND PROFESSIONAL PRIDE A LONG TIME AGO.</p></body></html>