<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0033"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0033"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0033</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0033 (NOSC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 13 JAN 90 (AFP) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN OPPOSITION NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT (MNR) TODAY DEMANDED THAT GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO "THOROUGHLY" INVESTIGATE THE ASSASSINATION OF MNR LEADER HECTOR OQUELI AND OF GUATEMALAN ATTORNEY GILDA FLORES.</p><p>DURING A NEWS CONFERENCE, THE MNR EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CONDEMNED THE "ABOMINABLE" CRIME PERPETRATED ON 12 JANUARY IN GUATEMALA BY ARMED MEN WEARING CIVILIAN CLOTHES. THE MNR ALSO DEMANDED THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT GUARANTEE THE SECURITY OF MNR SECRETARY GENERAL GUILLERMO UNGO, WHO WILL ARRIVE IN EL SALVADOR WITHIN THE NEXT FEW HOURS TO ATTEND OQUELI'S FUNERAL, WHICH IS SCHEDULED FOR 15 JANUARY.</p><p>OQUELI, 45, AND GILDA FLORES, A MEMBER OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST PARTY (PSD) OF GUATEMALA, WERE KIDNAPPED WHILE THEY WERE ON THEIR WAY TO LA AURORA AIRPORT IN GUATEMALA CITY. THEIR BODIES WERE FOUND LATER AT A PLACE NEAR THE SALVADORAN BORDER.</p><p>"THE PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS UNJUSTIFIABLE ASSASSINATION ARE THE ETERNAL ENEMIES OF LIBERTY, PEACE, AND DEMOCRACY," THE MNR STATES. THE MNR, ALONG WITH THE SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY AND THE SOCIAL CHRISTIAN PEOPLE'S MOVEMENT [MPSC], MAKE UP THE DEMOCRATIC CONVERGENCE COALITION.</p><p>THE MPSC ALSO ISSUED A COMMUNIQUE DEPLORING THE ASSASSINATION OF OQUELI AND URGING THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TO CONDEMN THIS ACTION.</p></body></html>