<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0542"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0542"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0542</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0542 (UMASS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 3 OCT 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] THE AUTHORITIES OF THE EASTERN DEPARTMENT OF ARAUCA, IN THE OIL PRODUCING SECTOR OF THE COUNTRY, HAVE ANNOUNCED THAT MSGR JESUS EMILIO JARAMILLO WAS MURDERED AND THAT HIS BODY WAS FOUND TODAY. THE AUTHORITIES BLAMED THE LEFTIST ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION (ELN) GUERRILLAS FOR THE MURDER.</p><p>YESTERDAY SEVERAL ARMED MEN KIDNAPPED JARAMILLO, THE BISHOP OF ARAUCA, AND HIS ASSISTANT, ELMER MUNOZ, BUT LATER RELEASED THE LATTER.</p><p>GENERAL RAFAEL PADILLA, COMMANDER OF THE 2D ARMY DIVISION, CONFIRMED THAT BISHOP JARAMILLO DIED FROM TWO GUNSHOTS TO THE HEAD. HE BLAMED THE ELN'S DOMINGO LAIN FRONT FOR THE CRIME.</p><p>GEN PADILLA PRAISED MSGR JARAMILLO'S WORK OVER THE PAST FEW YEARS IN FAVOR OF THE POOR IN ARAUCA DEPARTMENT, BUT DID NOT EXPLAIN WHAT REASONS THE GUERRILLAS COULD HAVE HAD FOR MURDERING THE PRELATE.</p><p>THIS IS THE FIRST TIME THAT A CHURCH OFFICIAL OF SUCH HIGH RANKING HAS BEEN MURDERED IN COLOMBIA.</p><p>THE ELN, THE MOST ACTIVE AND VIOLENT GUERRILLA GROUP IN THE COUNTRY, HAS REPEATEDLY REJECTED THE OFFERS OF PEACE FROM THE LIBERAL ADMINISTRATION OF PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO. THE ELN--WHICH IS LED BY MANUEL PEREZ, A SPANISH CITIZEN AND FORMER PRIEST--HAS MADE THE COUNTRY'S OIL INFRASTRUCTURE THE MAIN TARGET OF ITS TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.</p></body></html>