<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0379"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0379"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0379</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0379 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 25 AUG 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] LAST MINUTE REPORT: IN CONFUSING EVENTS, POLICE LIEUTENANT ALFREDO CORREA AND ONE PRIVATE WERE KILLED IN VALLE DEPARTMENT. NO FURTHER INFORMATION ON THIS INCIDENT HAS BEEN MADE AVAILABLE, OTHER THAN THAT AUTHORITIES ARE INVESTIGATING THE EVENT.</p><p>IT HAS ALSO BEEN REPORTED THAT 10TH ARMY BRIGADE MEMBERS FOUND AND CONFISCATED 2 METRIC TONS OF HIGH-GRADE COCAINE AT LA MONEDA FARM IN LECHI, CAUCASIA, AT THE BORDER BETWEEN ANTIOQUIA AND CORDOBA DEPARTMENTS. THE DRUG WAS FOUND IN SEALED WATERPROOF PACKAGES IN UNDERGROUND TUNNELS. THIS MAKES AUTHORITIES BELIEVE THE DRUG WAS READY TO BE AIR DROPPED OVER THE SEA TO BE PICKED UP BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS. IN ADDITION, A LARGE NUMBER OF ARMS, A SIZABLE AMOUNT OF AMMUNITION, AS WELL AS AUTOMOBILES AND RADIO SETS WERE CONFISCATED. THE DRUG WAS SET ON FIRE IN THE PRESENCE OF JUDGES AND MILITARY AUTHORITIES. A CLANDESTINE LANDING STRIP WAS ALSO DESTROYED.</p><p>ARSON SEEMS TO BE THE NEW CRIMINAL STYLE USED IN ANTIOQUIA. IN LESS THAN 24 HOURS, FOUR FARMS HAVE BEEN SET ON FIRE. THREE OF THESE FARMS, LOCATED NEAR MEDELLIN, ARE OWNED BY POLITICAL AND INDUSTRIAL LEADERS EDGAR GUTIERREZ CASTRO, IGNACIO VELEZ ESCOBAR, AND AUGUSTO LOPEZ. THE MOST RECENT OF THESE INCIDENTS OCCURRED AT THE LLANO GRANDE COUNTRY CLUB EARLY THIS MORNING. SEVERAL ARMED MEN SHOWED UP AT THE SITE AND SET THE CLUB ON FIRE AFTER THREATENING AND BEATING UP THE WATCHMEN. THE AMOUNT OF THE LOSSES HAS NOT YET BEEN DETERMINED. THE MANAGER DID NOT ALLOW REPORTERS INTO THE PLACE. IT WAS REPORTED, HOWEVER, THAT THE ATTACKERS IDENTIFIED THEMSELVES AS EXTRADITABLES WHO SAID THE ACTION WAS BEING TAKEN IN REPRISAL FOR THE GOVERNMENT ACTIONS AGAINST THEM. THE ARMED MEN LEFT THE PLACE SHOUTING THAT THEIR REACTION HAS JUST BEGUN AND THAT THEIR STRUGGLE WILL CONTINUE. FURTHER DAMAGE TO THE CLUB AND THE LOSS OF HUMAN LIFE WERE PREVENTED BY WORKERS WHO REACTED PROMPTLY.</p><p>THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT HAS TAKEN MEASURES TO COUNTERACT THESE ACTIONS. THE ARMY THIS AFTERNOON WILL RECEIVE THE INITIAL U.S. TACTICAL SUPPORT AS PART OF THE NEW ANTITERRORIST OFFENSIVE, GOVERNMENT SOURCES HAVE REPORTED. U.S. MILITARY CARGO PLANES WILL FLY TO COLOMBIA ARMED TWIN-TURBINE BELL-212 HELICOPTERS. IN ADDITION, THE PENTAGON WILL SHIP RADIO COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT. THE HELICOPTERS WILL BE FLOWN BY COLOMBIAN MILITARY CREWS, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT SOURCES SAID IN WASHINGTON. FOR THE TIME BEING, BOTH GEORGE BUSH'S ADMINISTRATION AND VIRGILIO BARCO'S GOVERNMENT ARE NOT CONSIDERING THE PRESENCE OF U.S. MILITARY MEN IN COLOMBIA.</p><p>OVER THE PAST 72 HOURS, THE ARMY RAIDED FIVE FARMS, ONE HOME, AND A BAR-RESTAURANT OWNED BY GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA, CAMILO ZAPATA, AND PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA. THE RAIDS WERE CONDUCTED BY 13TH BRIGADE TROOPS IN CHIA, PACHO, AND BOGOTA. THIS FARM, KNOWN AS EL CASTILLO DE MARROQUIN, OWNED BY ZAPATA AND ESTIMATED TO BE WORTH MORE THAN 100 BILLION PESOS, WAS RAIDED ON WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON. ACCORDING TO THE ARMY, THIS VERITABLE FORTRESS, LOCATED ON THE EL COMUN BRIDGE, WAS MANAGED BY RETIRED POLICE MAJOR ALVARO TOVAR TOVAR. LUXURIOUS CARS, A GOLD-ORNAMENTED CHAPEL, A SWIMMING POOL FITTED WITH A HEATING SYSTEM, 15 STABLES WITH FINE HORSES, A TENNIS COURT, AND THE IMPRESSIVE CASTLE ALL MAKE UP A FARM WORTH MILLIONS. EXTENSIVE GARDENS, LONG TRAILS, AND AN ATTRACTIVE LAKE COMPLEMENT THE WONDERFUL NATURAL LANDSCAPE OF THE REAL ESTATE RIGHT BY THE BOGOTA NORTHERN FREEWAY. THERE ARE EXOTIC ADORNMENTS ON THE WALLS. FOR INSTANCE, THERE IS A BOTERO PAINTING WORTH 4 MILLION PESOS. IN ONE ROOM, THERE WERE MANY ELECTRIC APPLIANCES AND A FULL RADIO COMMUNICATIONS SET. THE EXORBITANT WEALTH IS INDICATED BY EVEN A WITCHCRAFT ROOM. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>