<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0885"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0885"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0885</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0885 (GTE)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 27 NOV 89 (RADIO SANDINO) -- [INTERVIEW WITH PILOT MAURICIO QUIROS GARCIA BY LUIS CABRERA] [TEXT] [CABRERA] THE ALLEGED NICARAGUAN PILOT THAT WAS KILLED IN EL SALVADOR IS ALIVE AND WELL, IN MANAGUA, TALKING WITH US. THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT SAID MAURICIO QUIROS GARCIA WAS KILLED IN AN ALLEGED TRANSSHIPMENT OF WEAPONS LAST SATURDAY, 25 NOVEMBER WHEN A CESSNA PLANE CRASHED. MAURICIO QUIROS GARCIA, 36-YEARS-OLD, IS HERE, NEXT TO ME. HE IS MARRIED AND HAS CHILDREN. GOOD EVENING, MAURICIO.</p><p>[QUIROS GARCIA] GOOD EVENING. I AM SO SURPRISED AND ASTONISHED OVER THIS REPORT, THAT I REALLY DO NOT KNOW HOW TO EXPLAIN HOW I FELT WHEN I WAS CALLED. AT FIRST, I THOUGHT IT WAS A JOKE. HOWEVER, AFTER RECEIVING SEVERAL TELEPHONE CALLS FROM SEVERAL NEWSMEN, I STARTED TO THINK SERIOUSLY ABOUT THIS. I WANT TO CLARIFY AND EXPLAIN THAT THIS REPORT IS TOTALLY FALSE.</p><p>[CABRERA] MAURICIO, THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT SAYS YOU ARE A FORMER PILOT OF THE SANDINIST AIR FORCE, FAS. IS THAT TRUE?</p><p>[QUIROS GARCIA] THAT IS TRUE. I WAS IN THE FAS FOR 2 YEARS, AND NOW, I HAVE BEEN WORKING WITH AERONICA FOR THE LAST 8 YEARS.</p><p>[CABRERA] WHAT TYPES OF FLIGHTS DO YOU MAKE? TO WHERE DO YOU FLY AND FROM WHERE?</p><p>[QUIROS GARCIA] THEY ARE INTERNATIONAL FLIGHTS. I AM THE CAPTAIN OF A BOEING 727. WE FLY TO PANAMA CITY; SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA; MEXICO CITY, AND GUATEMALA CITY.</p><p>[CABRERA] WHERE DID YOU GO TO SCHOOL?</p><p>[QUIROS GARCIA] IN MEXICO.</p><p>[CABRERA] WERE YOU EVER INVOLVED WITH THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT], ARE YOU FAMILIAR WITH ANY TYPE OF WEAPONS? THE REPORTS MENTION SOPHISTICATED EQUIPMENT. DID YOU JUST UNLOAD ALL THAT IN EL SALVADOR, AND TURNED AROUND SO QUICKLY, THAT YOU WERE IN SEVERAL PLACES ON SATURDAY?</p><p>[QUIROS GARCIA] I DO NOT HAVE THE SLIGHTEST NOTION ABOUT SOPHISTICATED WEAPONS, OR ANYTHING ELSE. MY JOB IS TO PILOT A PLANE, AND THAT IS WHAT I DO; I PILOT THE AERONICA PLANE AND THAT IS IT.</p><p>[CABRERA] MAURICIO, DO YOU KNOW THE FMLN WELL?</p><p>[QUIROS GARCIA] NO, I DO NOT KNOW ANYONE FROM THE FMLN. I HAVE NO RELATIONS WITH ANYONE LINKED AT ALL TO THE FMLN.</p><p>[CABRERA] SO WHY SHOULD ANYONE WANT TO REPORT THAT YOU WERE KILLED EARLY IN THE MORNING IN USULUTAN DEPARTMENT?</p><p>[QUIROS GARCIA] WELL, AS I SAID BEFORE, THAT REPORT HAS SURPRISED ME. FRANKLY SPEAKING, I DO NOT KNOW. THIS SHOWS THAT CERTAIN GOVERNMENTS SOMETIMES ISSUE TOTALLY FALSE REPORTS IN ORDER TO HIDE OR, I DO NOT KNOW [CHANGES THOUGHT] THAT REPORT IS TOTALLY FALSE. THAT IS ALL I CAN SAY. AS YOU CAN SEE, I AM VERY CONCERNED, AND JUST AS SURPRISED AS YOU ARE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>