<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1002"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1002"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1002</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1002 (TRW)</p><p>BOGOTA, 16 DEC 89 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] ALL PRIVATE AIRCRAFT AND FLIGHTS IN THE COUNTRY HAVE BEEN PLACED UNDER MILITARY CONTROL AND SUBJECT TO STRICT RESTRICTIONS BY THE COLOMBIAN AIR FORCE [FAC]. NO PRIVATE AIRCRAFT WILL BE ALLOWED TO LEAVE ANY AIRPORT TERMINAL OR FLY IN COLOMBIA'S AIR SPACE WITHOUT THE PERMISSION OF THE MILITARY AUTHORITIES. THE AIRCRAFT WILL BE SUBJECT TO THE REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE VIOLATION OF COLOMBIA'S AIR SPACE.</p><p>PERMITS FOR PRIVATE AIRCRAFT ARE NOW UNDER THE CONTROL OF MILITARY AUTHORITIES, WHICH ARE EXERTING TOTAL CONTROL OF THE AIR SPACE. THE NORTHERN AIR FORCE COMMAND BASE, LOCATED IN BARRANQUILLA, HAS BEEN REINFORCED WITH PLANES SENT FROM PALANQUERO AIR FORCE BASE TO CONTROL COLOMBIA'S CARIBBEAN COAST. KFIR, MIRAGES, M-5S, COMBAT PLANES, AND T-33 AND T-41 RECONAISSANCE AIRCRAFT ARE CONSTANTLY PATROLLING COLOMBIAN AIR SPACE.</p><p>MEANWHILE, ALL COMMERCIAL AND PRIVATE AIR OPERATIONS IN SUCRE DEPARTMENT AND THE COLOMBIAN CARIBBEAN COAST HAVE BEEN PLACED UNDER MILITARY CONTROL WITH HEAVY RESTRICTIONS. THE FAC ASSUMED CONTROL WITH COMBAT AND RECONAISSANCE AIRCRAFT. THE COMMERCIAL AIRPORTS' CONTROL TOWERS HAVE WARNED THAT THE FAC HAS THE AIR SPACE UNDER CONTROL AND ANY AIRPLANE FLYING OVER THE ZONE MAY BE SHOT DOWN IF IT IS DECLARED A MILITARY ZONE. PRIVATE AIRPLANES MUST HAVE THEIR FLIGHT PLANS CHECKED WITH THE MILITARY AUTHORITIES.</p></body></html>