<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1148"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1148"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="PANAMA CITY (PANAMA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1148</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1148 (UNISYS)</p><p>PANAMA CITY (PANAMA), 3 MAR 90 (CIRCUITO RPC TELEVISION) -- [REPORT] [JULIO MILLER, DIRECTOR OF RPC NEWS DEPARTMENT] [TEXT] DEAR TELEVISION AUDIENCE, WE BRIEFLY INTERRUPT OUR REGULAR PROGRAMMING TO OFFER YOU A REPORT OF GENERAL INTEREST. THE FILM CLIPS WE WILL SEE IN A FEW MINUTES WERE TAKEN THIS AFTERNOON AND EARLY TONIGHT AT THE RESIDENCY OF THE PERUVIAN AMBASSADOR IN BELLA VISTA CORREGIMIENTO, EL CANGREJO NEIGHBORHOOD, WHEN PEOPLE WERE STAGING A PEACEFUL DEMONSTRATION PROMPTED BY THE PANAMANIAN GOVERNMENT'S DECISION TO GRANT SAFE-CONDUCTS TO SOME OF THE PANAMANIANS CURRENTLY AT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY. AMONG THE PANAMANIANS WHO SOUGHT SHELTER AT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY AND WHO WERE GRANTED SAFE-CONDUCTS ARE MARCELA TASON, FORMER PRIVATE SECRETARY OF OUSTED PANAMANIAN DICTATOR MANUEL ANTONIO. CAPTAINS HERACLIDES SUCRE, AND GONZALO GONZALEZ, INVOLVED IN THE KILLING OF MAJOR MOISES GIROLDI ARE ALSO AT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY. THE FILM CLIPS SHOW PART OF THE INTENSE PROTESTS THAT TOOK PLACE NEAR, OR RATHER ON THE GROUNDS OF THE RESIDENCY OF THE PERUVIAN AMBASSADOR IN PANAMA CITY.</p><p>DEMONSTRATORS THREW STONES AT THE EMBASSY WINDOWS AND LATER SET FIRE TO PART OF THE RESIDENCY INSTALLATIONS. [CROWD SHOUTS: "THIS DAMNED THING IS ON FIRE!" THREE TIMES] DURING THE PROTEST NOT ONE OF THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS ATTEMPTED TO LEAVE THE DIPLOMATIC QUARTERS. PERUVIAN DIPLOMATS AND EVEN THE PANAMANIANS WHO SOUGHT SHELTER AT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY AND WHO WERE AT THE RESIDENCY REMAINED INSIDE. PANAMANIAN PUBLIC FORCE UNITS UNSUCESSFULLY TRIED TO CONTROL DEMONSTRATORS. DURING THE INCIDENT, A PUBLIC FORCE MEMBER WHO TRIED TO PREVENT THE INCIDENT WAS SLIGHTLY INJURED. THESE SCENES WERE FILMED THIS AFTERNOON AND DURING THE EARLY EVENING HOURS BY OUR CAMERAMAN JOSE CASIS JR. AND SHOW PART OF THE PROTEST ACTIONS AGAINST THE RESIDENCY.</p><p>MAJOR EDGARDO LOPEZ GRIMALDO, FORMER DEFENSE FORCES PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICER, AND THE OTHER CAPTAINS WE MENTIONED BEFORE ARE CURRENTLY AT THE RESIDENCY. LET US LISTEN TO PART OF THE STATEMENTS BY THE WIDOW OF MAJOR MOISES GIROLDI.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ADELA DE GIROLDI] HE [NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED] TOLD US THAT HE WILL TAKE US TO FIRST VICE PRESIDENT AND JUSTICE MINISTER RICARDO ARIAS CALDERON.</p><p>[REPORTER] DID YOU AGREE TO THAT?</p><p>[GIROLDI] I DO NOT WANT TO SEE ANYONE ELSE KILLED. I THINK THERE HAVE BEEN ENOUGH PEOPLE KILLED. I BELIEVE THE PRESSURE WE HAVE EXERTED IS ENOUGH.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT WILL BE YOUR POSITION WHEN YOU TALK TO THE MINISTER?</p><p>[GIROLDI] I WANT THE PANAMANIAN GOVERNMENT TO TAKE ACTION SO THAT THE PERUVIAN AUTHORITIES TURN THOSE PEOPLE OVER TO THE PANAMANIANS. I THINK IT IS A MATTER OF FIRMLY DEMANDING THAT THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT TURNS THIS PEOPLE OVER TO PANAMA.</p><p>[REPORTER] HOWEVER, IF THERE IS NOT A SATISFACTORY RESPONSE TODAY, BY THE AUTHORITIES AND THE GOVERNMENT, WHAT MEASURES WILL YOU ADOPT? WILL YOU CONTINUE PROTESTING?</p><p>[GIROLDI] OF COURSE WE WILL CONTINUE PROTESTING. WE WILL CONTINUE PROTESTING BECAUSE THE ONLY THING WE ARE ASKING FOR IS THAT THESE PEOPLE SURRENDER TO PANAMANIAN JUSTICE SO THE LAW CAN BE ENFORCED BECAUSE THEY KILLED....[CHANGES THOUGHT] HERACLIDES SUCRE FIRED AT MY HUSBAND, HAVE YOU HEARD ABOUT IT, HE MACHINEGUNNED MY HUSBAND IN COLD BLOOD. OTHER OFFICERS AND SOLDIERS WHO TOOK PART IN THE 3 OCTOBER COUP WERE TORTURED, CUT WITH MACHETES. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE FOLLOWING FILM CLIPS SHOW A DIALOGUE BETWEEN PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC GUILLERMO ENDARA, VICE PRESIDENT RICARDO ARIAS CALDERON, AND THE WIDOWS OF OFFICERS AND MILITARYMEN MISSING OR KILLED ON 3 OCTOBER 1989 IN THE ATTEMPTED COUP. THE DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE PRESIDENT, THE VICE PRESIDENT, AND THE DEMONSTRATORS WAS POSITIVE. DEMONSTRATORS PROMISED TO REMAIN CALM AND WAIT UNTIL PANAMANIAN JUSTICE DETERMINES THE RESPONSIBILITY, AND ISSUE SENTENCES FOR THOSE CURRENTLY AT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY. LATER ON VICE PRESIDENT RICARDO ARIAS CALDERON, AND PRESIDENT ENDARA MADE STATEMENTS TO THE PRESS. WE WILL LISTEN FIRST TO STATEMENTS BY VICE PRESIDENT RICARDO ARIAS CALDERON. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>