<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0404"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0404"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-31"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MADRID (SPAIN)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0404</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0404 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>MADRID (SPAIN), 31 AUG 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] WE NOW HAVE SOME STATEMENTS MADE EXCLUSIVELY TO MADRID RADIO BY A FORMER MEMBER OF THE CHILEAN SECRET POLICE. JOSE MANUEL MARTIN MEDEM REPORTS:</p><p>[MARTIN MEDEM] THE EXILES FROM CHILE, ARGENTINA, AND URUGUAY REPEATEDLY STATED THAT WHILE THERE WERE MILITARY DICTATORSHIPS IN THEIR COUNTRIES, THE ARMED FORCES OF THE SOUTHERN HALF OF LATIN AMERICA ACTED JOINTLLY, WITHOUT RESPECTING BORDERS, IN REPRESSION. IN THIS WAY, THEY WERE ABLE TO KIDNAP AN EXILE FROM WHERE HE HAD TAKEN REFUGE AND MAKE HIM RETURN TO THE COUNTRY OF ORIGIN, WHERE MANY WERE TORTURED AND MURDERED. OUR COLLEAGUE, JAVIER GONZALEZ, HAS NOW MANAGED A WITNESS REPORT THAT CONFIRMS THESE ACCUSATIONS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [GONZALEZ] A FORMER MEMBER OF DINA [NATIONAL INTELLEGENCE DIRECTORATE], THE CHILEAN SECRET SERVICE UNDER PINOCHET, HAS ASKED REQUESTED POLITICAL ASYLUM IN SPAIN. HE IS JUAN JOSE SOTO VARGAS, WHO WORKED IN THE DINA CITIZENS' INTELLIGENCE BRIGADE. HE HAS TURNED AWAY FROM THE REGIME, ALTHOUGH HE MAINTAINED HIS IDEOLOGICAL STANCE. SOTO VARGAS, A DOCTOR BY PROFESSION AND A PASTOR OF AN EVANGELICAL CHURCH, HAS MADE EXCLUSIVE STATEMENTS TO MADRID RADIO IN WHICH HE CONFIRMS POLICE COOPERATION BETWEEN THE REGION'S MILITARY GOVERNMENTS DURING THE PERIOD OF STATE TERRORISM.</p><p>[SOTO VARGAS] WE, IN THE CHILEAN EMBASSY, WORKED WITH THE ARGENTINE FEDERAL POLICE AND WITH THE ARGENTINE ARMED FORCES IN THE FIGHT AGAINST SUBVERSION IN 1976 AND SHORTLY BEFORE ISABEL MARTINEZ DE PERON LEFT POWER. WE ALSO WORKED JOINTLY WITH THE SECURITY FORCES OF URAGUAY, PARAGUAY, AND BRAZIL. I WORKED IN THE CHILEAN EMBASSY IN BRAZIL WITH THE AGREEMENT OF THE NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICE OF THE BRAZILIAN CENTRAL AGENCY. WELL, RELATIONS WERE THE BEST AND THIS WAS SIMPLY BECAUSE THE SOUTH AMERICAN ARMED FORCES, AT TO INSTALL ITSELF IN SOUTH AMERICA OR TO IMPOSE ITSELF THROUGH GUERRILLA TACTICS AND VIOLENCE.</p><p>[GONZALEZ] SOTO VARGAS HAS ALREADY REQUESTED POLITICAL ASYLUM IN OTHER EUROPEAN COUNTRIES, WHICH HE HAS HAD TO LEAVE FOR DIFFERENT REASONS. HE SAYS THAT HE DID NOT TORTURE OR KILL ANYONE AND THAT THINGS LIKE THIS DID NOT HAPPEN IN CHILE. HOWEVER, HE ADMITS THAT GENERAL CARLOS PRATS, THE HEAD OF THE ARMY UNDER PRESIDENT ALLENDE, WAS ASSASSINATED IN BUENOS AIRES UNDER ORDERS OF THE PINOCHET GOVERNMENT.</p><p>[SOTO VARGAS] THERE IS PROOF, EVEN JUDICIAL PROOF, THAT THERE WAS PARTICIPATION BY HIGH-RANKING MEMBERS OF THE CHILEAN ARMY WHO WERE ORDERED TO CARRY OUT ASSASSINATIONS. FOR EXAMPLE, WHEN I WORKED IN THE MILITARY SECTION OF THE CHILEAN EMBASSY IN ARGENTINA, GEN VICTOR HUGO BARRIERA BARRIERA OF THE ARMY INTELLIGENCE SERVICE AN THERE WAS TALK IN THE CHILEAN EMBASSY THAT THE CHILEAN HIGH-RANKING OFFICER HAD ORDERED THE PHYSICAL EXTERMINATION OF PRATS. [AS HEARD] [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>