<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0792"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0792"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0792</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0792 (PRC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 17 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] AND SO, TODAY WE RECEIVED A RESOLUTION FROM THE GUATEMALAN CONGRESS, WHERE THE GUATEMALAN CHRISTIAN DEMOCRACY, UCN [UNION OF THE NATIONAL CENTER], AND THE MLN [NATIONAL LIBERATION MOVEMENT], IN SUM, ALL THE POLITICAL FORCES JOINED IN CONDEMNING VIOLENCE AND THE FMLN, AND SUPPORTING OUR COUNTRY'S DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONALITY WHICH IS WHAT THE PEOPLE WANT. SALVADORAN BROTHERS, THIS SUPPORT MUST SERVE TO MOTIVATE US TO CREATE A UNITED FRONT, REJECT THE FMLN'S TERRORIST VIOLENCE, AND SEEK THE PEACE OUR COUNTRY WANTS AND NEEDS.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WE ARE SURE THIS WILL BE OVER SOON. IN TIMES LIKE THESE, THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE HAVE ALWAYS REACTED IN A POSITIVE MANNER. SOLIDARITY EXISTS AMONG ALL SALVADORANS TO SEEK AND HELP THE NEEDIEST. THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT IS READY TO DO EVERYTHING WITHIN ITS POWER TO ACHIEVE TOTAL NORMALIZATION AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. IN ADDITION, IT IS JUST TO RECOGNIZE THE MILITARY CHIEFS AND OFFICERS AND, ESPECIALLY, THE SOLDIERS WHO HAVE BEEN DEFENDING THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE FOR MANY DAYS, TRYING TO OUST THE FMLN HORDES FROM SAN SALVADOR AND OTHER CITIES WHERE THEY SOUGHT TO SOW TERROR.</p><p>WE BELIEVE THAT THOSE MILITARY CHIEFS AND OFFICERS MUST FEEL THE SUPPORT FROM ALL THE PEOPLE AND, PRIMARILY, OUR RECOGNITION OF THEIR BRAVERY AND TOTAL DEDICATION TO THEIR FATHERLAND AND PEOPLE, WHO ARE NOW SEEKING PEACE AND CALM. AS FOR US, MILITARY CHIEFS, OFFICERS, SOLDIERS: OUR HIGHEST RECOGNITION AND GRATITUDE. HISTORY WILL REWARD YOU AND SAY THE GLORIOUS ARMED FORCES AND THEIR UNITS FOUND THE ROAD FOR ERADICATING VIOLENCE IN THE COUNTRY. SALVADORAN PEOPLE, THROUGH THE NATIONAL RADIO NETWORK AND DIFFERENT LOCAL NEWS MEDIA, YOU HAVE LEARNED WHAT IS HAPPENING. WE WILL BE GIVING YOU THE INFORMATION YOU NEED. WE ALSO WANT TO ASK YOU TODAY, JUST AS YOU SAW ALMOST TOTAL NORMALCY -- BUSES ON THE STREETS, PEOPLE GOING TO WORK -- TO CONTINUE DOING YOUR PART SO THAT TRANQUILLITY WILL PREVAIL AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. TO ALL, THANK YOU. MAY GOD BLESS YOU.</p></body></html>