<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0141"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0141"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0141</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0141 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 19 MAR 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN ARMY ACCEPTED RESPONSIBILITY THIS MORNING FOR THE DEATH OF TWO REPORTERS WHO WERE SHOT BY SOLDIERS IN THE PAST FEW HOURS IN THE CAPITAL AND IN THE EASTERN SAN MIGUEL DEPARTMENT.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL REPORT, IN BOTH CASES, THE SOLDIERS FIRED WHEN THE REPORTERS, BOTH SALVADORANS, IGNORED ORDERS TO HALT. HOWEVER, FRIENDS OF THE VICTIMS MAINTAIN THIS IS NOT TRUE.</p><p>A SPOKESMAN FOR THE ARMY PRESS COMMITTEE SAID THAT LAST NIGHT, AN AIR FORCE MEMBER FIRED AT PHOTOGRAPHERS ROBERTO NAVAS AND LUIS GALDAMEZ, SALVADORANS WHO WORK FOR THE BRITISH REUTER NEWS AGENCY, "WHEN THEY FAILED TO STOP AT A MILITARY CHECKPOINT" AT A CAPITAL CITY AVENUE.</p><p>NAVAS DIED AND GALDAMEZ WAS SERIOUSLY INJURED. GALDAMEZ WAS LEFT LYING IN THE STREET UNTIL HE WAS PICKED UP "SEVERAL HOURS LATER," BY HIS OWN ACCOUNT, AND TAKEN TO A HOSPITAL, WHERE HE UNDERWENT SURGERY.</p><p>ACCORDING TO HOSPITAL SOURCES AND REUTER, GALDAMEZ IS NOW "OUT OF DANGER;" IT WILL NOT BE NECESSARY TO AMPUTATE HIS RIGHT ARM, AS WAS ORIGINALLY FEARED.</p><p>ANOTHER REPORTER, MAURICIO PINEDA, A SOUND TECHNICIAN FOR CANAL DOCE TELEVISION OF SAN SALVADOR, DIED THIS MORNING IN THE EASTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY AT A CROSSROADS, WHEN A SOLDIER FIRED AT PINEDA'S VEHICLE WHILE HE WAS ON HIS WAY TO COVER TODAY'S ELECTIONS.</p><p>THE ARMY SPOKESMAN EMPHASIZED THAT IN BOTH CASES, "THE SOLDIERS FIRED ON SUSPICIOUS-LOOKING PEOPLE WHO DID NOT RESPECT THE STOP SIGN AT A MILITARY CHECKPOINT."</p><p>HOWEVER, GALDAMEZ SAID HE AND NAVAS, WHO WERE ON A MOTOCYCLE, DID STOP AT THE CHECKPOINT AND THAT THE SOLDIERS FIRED ON THEM WITHOUT JUSTIFICATION.</p><p>RAUL BELTRAN, ONE OF MAURICIO PINEDA'S COWORKERS, SAID THE CANAL DOCE TEAM WAS TRAVELING IN A STATION WAGON WITH WHITE FLAGS AND SIGNS INDICATING THEY WERE REPORTERS AND THAT THE SOLDIERS FIRED WITHOUT HAVING FIRST GIVEN ANY INDICATION THE REPORTERS SHOULD STOP.</p></body></html>