<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0926"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0926"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0926</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0926 (SRI)</p><p>LA PAZ, 4 DEC 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE POLITICAL NEGOTIATIONS THAT RESULTED IN JAIME PAZ ZAMORA'S INSTALLATION AS PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC WILL AGAIN TAKE PLACE IN THE NEXT WEEKS TO DECIDE WHO WILL BE INSTALLED AS MAYOR OF LA PAZ.</p><p>THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS HELD YESTERDAY DID NOT CLEARLY INDICATE WHO WILL BE THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTRY'S BIGGEST CITY, WHERE THE CANDIDATES OF THE POPULIST NEW POLITICAL GROUPS AND THOSE OF THE TRADITIONAL PARTIES RECEIVED APPROXIMATELY THE SAME NUMBER OF VOTES.</p><p>ACCORDING TO UNOFFICIAL RETURNS RELEASED BY THE PRIVATE TELEVISION CHANNELS, WHICH IN PREVIOUS ELECTIONS HAVE PROVEN TO BE VERY SIMILAR TO THOSE OF THE NATIONAL ELECTORAL COURT, CARLOS PALENQUE, 45, A RADIO AND TELEVISION BUSINESSMAN AND THE LEADER OF THE CONSCIENCE OF THE FATHERLAND (CONDEPA), HAS RECEIVED MOST OF THE VOTES.</p><p>PALENQUE RECEIVED 39.9 PERCENT OF THE VOTES CAST IN LA PAZ, THEREBY GIVING CONDEPA 5 OF THE 13 SEATS ON THE TOWN COUNCIL, WHICH WILL ELECT THE MAYOR OF LA PAZ ON 2 JANUARY.</p><p>THE ALLIANCE OF THE RIGHT WING NATIONALIST DEMOCRATIC ACTION (ADN) AND THE SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC MOVEMENT OF THE REVOLUTIONARY LEFT (MIR) HAS ALSO WON FIVE TOWN COUNCIL SEATS.</p><p>RONALD MACLEAN, 40 AND OF SCOTTISH ANCESTRY, THE MAYORAL CANDIDATE OF THE ADN-MIR ALLIANCE, HAS OBTAINED 36.8 PERCENT OF THE VOTES IN LA PAZ, WHERE HE HAS BEEN THE MAYOR SINCE L985.</p><p>FAR BEHIND WERE THE FORMER ADMINISTRATION'S PARTY, THE NATIONALIST REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT (MNR), WHICH RECEIVED TWO SEATS, AND THE POPULIST SOLIDARITY CIVIC UNION (UCS), LED BY BREWERY OWNER MAX FERNANDEZ, WITH ONE TOWN COUNCIL SEAT.</p><p>THE DECISION AS TO WHO WILL BE THE NEW LA PAZ MAYOR ON 2 JANUARY IS NOW IN THE HANDS OF THE MNR, BUT ITS LEADERS DECLINED TO COMMENT ON THEIR POSITION LAST NIGHT.</p><p>GONZALO SANCHEZ DE LOSADA, THE LEADER OF THE MNR, LAST NIGHT SAID ON TELEVISION: "WE MUST BE EXTREMELY SERIOUS IN SEARCHING FOR A SOLUTION TO THIS PROBLEM, OR THE PEOPLE WILL TURN THEIR BACKS ON POPULISM."</p><p>HE SAID HIS DECISION WILL BE "A CHRISTMAS PRESENT." HE INSISTED, HOWEVER, THAT IN HIS OPINION THE GOVERNING ADN-MIR ALLIANCE "WILL EASILY FIX THINGS BETWEEN THEM" BECAUSE "THEY ARE TWO OF A KIND."</p><p>ALTHOUGH THE MNR WAS THE PARTY TO RECEIVE MOST OF THE VOTES IN THE 7 MAY PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS, IT WAS DUE TO AN ALLIANCE BETWEEN TWO OLD POLITICAL ENEMIES -- THE ADN AND MIR -- THAT JAIME PAZ ZAMORA, WHO HAD COME THIRD IN THE ELECTIONS, WAS INSTALLED AS PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC. "IF WE APPLIED THIS SAME RULE TO THE CURRENT PROBLEM," SANCHEZ DE LOSADA SAID JOKINGLY, "GUIDO CAPRA (MNR CANDIDATE FOR MAYOR OF LA PAZ) WOULD BE ELECTED."</p><p>SANCHEZ DE LOSADA POINTED OUT THAT PALENQUE WAS ONE OF THE SUPPORTERS OF THE ADN-MIR GOVERNING ALLIANCE, WHICH PREVENTED SANCHEZ DE LOSADA FROM BECOMING PRESIDENT.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE OPPOSITION, PALENQUE'S PARTY GAINED THE LA PAZ DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (CORDEPAZ) AND "HALF A MINISTRY" (REFERRING TO THE COMMUNICATIONS AND TRANSPORTATION MINISTRY) AS A RESULT OF THE ALLIANCE. SANCHEZ DE LOSADA WARNED THE BOLIVIAN POLITICIANS THAT PALENQUE'S POPULIST GROUP, WHICH IS GROWING VERY FAST, HAS ITS EYES SET "ON THE L993 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS, NOT ONLY ON THE LA PAZ MAYORSHIP."</p><p>WHILE RESPECT WAS SHOWN TOWARD RONALD MACLEAN, THE CANDIDATE MOST CRITICIZED BY THE MNR DURING THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS CAMPAIGN WAS PALENQUE.</p><p>PALENQUE STATED, HOWEVER, THAT THE COUNCILMEN WHO ON 2 JANUARY WILL ELECT THE NEXT MAYOR OF LA PAZ MUST "RESPECT THE WILL OF THE MAJORITY."</p><p>"WE HOPE THAT THERE WILL BE NO NEGOTIATION (AMONG PARTIES) AND THAT THE DESIRE OF THE MAJORITY WILL BE RESPECTED," PALENQUE STATED. HE IS WELL KNOWN, ESPECIALLY BECAUSE OF THE BEARD HE WEARS, WHICH MAKES HIM LOOK VERY MUCH LIKE FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT ABRAHAM LINCOLN.</p><p>PALENQUE, WHO IS CERTAIN OF THE SUPPORT HE WILL RECEIVE FROM THE ONLY UCS COUNCILMAN IN LA PAZ, FEARS THAT A PACT BETWEEN THE ADN-MIR COALITION AND THE MNR WILL PREVENT HIM FROM OBTAINING THE MAYORSHIP OF THE MOST IMPORTANT CITY IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>SUCH AN ALLIANCE, HOWEVER, WITH A GREATER IDEOLOGICAL BASIS THAN ANY OTHER, WILL HAVE TO OVERCOME THE GRUDGE THAT THE MNR BEARS BECAUSE THE ADN AND THE MIR "HAD STOLEN FROM IT" THE PRESIDENCY OF THE REPUBLIC DURING THE LAST ELECTIONS, ACCORDING TO COMMENTATORS.</p><p>"WE ARE GOING TO BE VERY RESPONSIBLE, AND WE ARE NOT GOING TO BE MOTIVATED BY PERSONAL INTERESTS OR BY ANY VENGEANCE," SANCHEZ DE LOSADA STATED, COMMENTING ON THE NEGOTIATIONS THAT WILL TAKE PLACE TO DESIGNATE THE MAYOR OF LA PAZ.</p><p>LIKE IN LA PAZ, THE GOVERNMENT ALLIANCE WILL HAVE TO NEGOTIATE SUPPORT IN THE OTHER MAJOR BOLIVIAN CITIES, WHERE THE COALITION CAME IN FIRST BUT FAILED TO WIN ABSOLUTE MAJORITIES.</p><p>THE ONLY EXCEPTION IS SUCRE, WHERE THE CANDIDATE OF THE UNITED LEFT COALITION, RADIO REPORTER OMAR MONTALVO, OBTAINED 57.3 PERCENT OF THE VOTES, WHICH IS SUFFICIENT TO OBTAIN THE MAYORSHIP.</p><p>THE MOST OUTSTANDING POINTS ABOUT THE ELECTIONS WERE THE ABSTENTION OF BETWEEN 30 AND 50 PERCENT OF THE VOTERS AND THE ALMOST ABSOLUTE NORMALCY DURING THE ELECTIONS.</p><p>THE STATE OF SIEGE DECREED THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY ON 15 NOVEMBER DUE TO STREET CONFRONTATIONS CAUSED BY SOCIAL DISTURBANCES DID NOT HAMPER THE ELECTORAL PROCESS.</p><p>THE TRADITIONAL RESTRICTIONS, HOWEVER, AFFECTED TRAFFIC AND HAMPERED PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION, KEEPING VOTERS FROM CASTING THEIR VOTES. THE ABSTENTION WAS ALSO CAUSED BY THE WEARINESS OF THE VOTERS, WHO ARE VOTING FOR THE FOURTH TIME IN 4 YEARS.</p></body></html>