<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0436"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0436"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0436</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0436 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 6 SEP 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] COLOMBIA AND THE WORLD RECEIVED WITH OPTIMISM THE BUSH ANTIDRUG PLAN. THE U.S. PRESIDENT ANNOUNCED CONTROLS AND PUNISHMENTS FOR THOSE WHO USE DRUGS. HE ALSO ANNOUNCED THAT $8 BILLION HAS BEEN ALLOTED FOR THIS PLAN, WHICH INCLUDES REHABILITATION AND PREVENTION PROGRAMS. THE MEASURES HAVE BEEN CRITICIZED. HOWEVER, THE BUSH PLAN BRINGS HOPE IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG USAGE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [BUSH] THIS IS A COCAINE BY-PRODUCT CALLED CRACK WHICH WAS CONFISCATED A FEW DAYS AGO BY POLICEMEN AT A PARK IN FRONT OF THE WHITE HOUSE. IT COULD HAVE BEEN HEROIN OR PCP. IT LOOKS LIKE CANDY, BUT THIS IS TURNING OUR CITIES INTO BATTLEFIELDS AND IS KILLING OUR CHILDREN. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THIS IS HOW PRESIDENT BUSH BEGAN HIS SPEECH, IN WHICH HE DELIVERED HIS PLAN TO U.S. CITIZENS ON FIGHTING DRUG TRAFFICKERS. THE HUGE NUMBER OF DRUG USERS MADE THE GOVERNMENT INCREASE THE $2 BILLION BUDGET LAST YEAR.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [BUSH] AS YOU CAN SEE ON THIS CHART, IN 1985 THE GOVERNMENT ESTIMATED THAT 23 MILLION U.S. CITIZENS WERE USING DRUGS ON A CASUAL BASIS; THAT IS, AT LEAST ONCE DURING THE PAST MONTH. LAST YEAR, THIS FIGURE DROPPED BY OVER 1/3, WHICH MEANS THAT 9 MILLION U.S. CITIZENS HAVE CEASED BEING OCCASIONAL DRUG USERS. ALTHOUGH THE OVERALL COCAINE USAGE HAS DROPPED, THE FREQUENT USE OF COCAINE HAS ALMOST DOUBLED IN THE PAST FEW YEARS. THESE ARE THE CASUAL COCAINE USERS, THOSE WHO CONSUME CRACK, AND WHO REPRESENT THE MOST SERIOUS AND URGENT PROBLEM. [END RECORDING]</p><p>PRESIDENT BUSH'S ADVISERS SAID THE PRESIDENT IS AWARE OF THE DIFFICULTIES OF THE PLAN, HOWEVER HE BELIEVES THIS IS THE FIRST STEP IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUGS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [BUSH] TODAY, I SENT THIS DOCUMENT. OUR FIRST NATIONAL STRATEGY ON DRUG CONTROL. I SENT IT TO THE CONGRESS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>BUSH BELIEVES THAT WITH THIS FORMULA HE WILL DEFEAT DRUG USAGE IN HIS COUNTRY, DESPITE CRITICISM FROM SOME U.S. CONGRESSMEN.</p></body></html>