<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0281"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0281"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0281</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0281 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 5 JUL 89 (VOZ DE HONDURAS NETWORK) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FOREIGN MINISTRY] [TEXT] THE HONDURAN FOREIGN RELATIONS MINISTRY, BASED ON REPORTS FROM AUTHORITIES IN CHARGE OF SECURITY MATTERS RELATED TO THE INTERROGATION OF CAPTAIN ADAN SOLORZANO MARTINEZ -- AN INTELLIGENCE AGENT OF THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT -- INFORMS THE NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC OF THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>IT IS A KNOWN FACT THAT WITH THE INTENSIFICATION OF THE ARMS RACE BY THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT AND THE USE OF NICARAGUAN TERRITORY AS A POLITICAL AND MILITARY BASE FOR SUBVERSIVE GROUPS, THERE HAS BEEN AN INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES, ASSASSINATIONS, TERRORIST ATTACKS, AND OTHER FORMS OF POLITICAL, ECONOMIC, AND SOCIAL DESTABILIZATION IN THE REGION.</p><p>OVER THE PAST 9 YEARS, EL SALVADOR HAS BEEN THE PRIMARY TARGET OF INTERNATIONAL SUBVERSION AND TERRORISM. HONDURAS, HOWEVER, HAS ALSO BEEN AFFECTED BY THESE ACTIONS ON VARIOUS OCCASIONS.</p><p>WE RECALL THE DEPLORABLE KIDNAPPING OF 100 PERSONS AT THE CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRIES IN CORTES IN 1982; THE ILLEGAL HIJACKING OF TAN-SAHSA AIRCRAFT BY TERRORIST COMMANDOS WHO ALWAYS ENDED UP SEEKING REFUGE IN MANAGUA OR HAVANA; THE PLANTING OF TWO BOMBS THAT DESTROYED POWER PLANTS IN TEGUCIGALPA, AS WELL AS OTHER TERRORIST ACTS AGAINST HONDURAS BOTH INSIDE AND OUTSIDE THE COUNTRY; CLANDESTINE ARMS TRAFFICKING, ETC.</p><p>ON 27-28 JUNE, THE HONDURAN GOVERNMENT AND PEOPLE WERE SHOCKED BY A STATEMENT MADE IN SAN PEDRO SULA BY A NICARAGUAN CITIZEN WHO, ACCORDING TO HIS STATEMENTS, IS AN ARMY CAPTAIN AND INTELLIGENCE AGENT FOR THE SANDINIST REGIME. HE DISCLOSED THAT, IN AUGUST 1988, HE WAS ASSIGNED THE MISSIONS OF PLANNING THE ASSASSINATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC AND THE BEHEADING OF THE HONDURAN SPIRITUAL AND POLITICAL LEADERSHIP THROUGH THE PHYSICAL ELIMINATION OF HONDURAN ARCHBISHOP MSGR HECTOR ENRIQUE SANTOS AND PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES CARLOS ROBERTO FLORES AND RAFAEL LEONARDO CALLEJAS ROMERO, OF THE LIBERAL AND NATIONAL PARTIES RESPECTIVELY.</p><p>THE SANDINIST FOREIGN MINISTRY RESPONDED TO THESE REPORTS BY ISSUING A 29 JULY 1989 COMMUNIQUE, IN WHICH IT OPENLY ADMITTED THAT NICARAGUAN CITIZEN ORLANDO ADAN SOLORZANO MARTINEZ WAS AN ARMY LIEUTENANT -- NOT A CAPTAIN -- AND THAT HE HAD WORKED FOR THE NICARAGUAN INTERIOR MINISTRY FOR 7 AND 1/2 YEARS, FROM 20 AUGUST 1979 TO 28 JANUARY 1987.</p><p>THE COMMUNIQUE ADDED THAT ON 28 JANUARY 1987, SOLORZANO HAD BEEN FIRED AND THAT HIS RECORD SHOWED A LONG LIST OF DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS. THIS EXPLANATION VERY CONVENIENTLY ALLOWS NICARAGUA TO DISASSOCIATE ITSELF FROM THE ESPIONAGE AND TERRORIST ACTIVITIES OF ITS INTELLIGENCE AGENT IN THE EVENT HE WAS CAUGHT OR DESERTED. UNDOUBTEDLY, THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT, BECAUSE OF ITS IDEOLOGY AND BECAUSE IT HAS CLOSE TIES TO THE FINANCING AND TRAINING -- BOTH POLITICALLY AND MILITARILY -- OF CENTRAL AMERICAN TERRRORIST GROUPS, HAS BEEN DIRECTLY INVOLVED AT VARIOUS LEVELS IN THESE GROUPS' CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES, WHICH VIOLATE INTERNATIONAL NORMS ON PEACEFUL COEXISTENCE AND HUMAN RIGHTS. THIS SITUATION HAS GIVEN RISE TO THE DIFFERENT PEACE EFFORTS THAT HAVE SPRUNG UP IN THE REGION TO ATTEMPT TO PUT AN END TO THESE ACTIONS. THE HONDURAN SECURITY AUTHORITIES HAVE KNOWN FOR A LONG TIME ABOUT ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES AGAINST HONDURAS AND THE LINKS BETWEEN NICARAGUAN EMBASSY PERSONNEL IN TEGUCIGALPA AND HONDURAN REBEL GROUPS THAT HAVE BEEN TRAINED IN SPECIAL CAMPS IN NICARAGUA AND OTHER TOTALITARIAN COUNTRIES. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>