<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1128"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1128"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1128</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1128 (UNISYS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 20 FEB 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] AS A RESULT OF AN OFFENSIVE LAUNCHED BY ELN [ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION], EPL [POPULAR LIBERATION ARMY], AND FARC [REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA] REBELS, FIVE PEASANTS AND FOUR GUERRILLAS HAVE DIED, FIVE POLICEMEN HAVE BEEN WOUNDED, AND PROPERTY LOSSES IN THE MILLIONS HAVE OCCURRED. THE REBEL ACTIONS TOOK PLACE IN THE DEPARTMENTS OF BOLIVAR, META, SANTANDER, NORTHERN SANTANDER, CORDOBA, ANTIOQUIA, AND IN THE ARAUCA INTENDANCY.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE AUTHORITIES' PRELIMINARY REPORT, ELN GUERRILLAS APPARENTLY BLEW UP A POWER TOWER IN CARTAGENA CAUSING A BLACKOUT IN MOST PARTS OF CARTAGENA CITY. SUBSEQUENTLY, THE ELN REBELS SHOT AT THREE EMERGENCY MEDICAL CARE CENTERS WOUNDING FIVE POLICEMEN.</p><p>SIMILARLY, TWO BOMB ATTACKS ON THE CANO LIMON-COVENAS AND CENTRAL DE LOS LLANOS ORIENTALES OIL PIPELINES CONDUCTED BY ELN REBELS HAVE RESULTED IN PROPERTY DAMAGE IN THE MILLIONS. THE TWO ATTACKS OCCURRED IN THE DEPARTMENTS OF NORTHERN SANTANDER AND META, RESPECTIVELY.</p><p>TWO REBELS HAVE BEEN KILLED AND FOUR OTHERS HAVE BEEN ARRESTED AFTER VARIOUS CLASHES BETWEEN COLOMBIAN ARMY TROOPS AND ELN AND FARC REBELS IN THE DEPARTMENTS OF SANTANDER, META, AND ARAUCA INTENDANCY.</p><p>IN ADDITION, TWO EPL REBELS HAVE BEEN KILLED IN A RURAL AREA IN CORDOBA DEPARTMENT IN CLASHES WITH A CARTAGENA BATTALION MILITARY PATROL. THE MILITARY PATROL WAS CONDUCTING SEARCH AND COMBING OPERATIONS IN THE AREA. ONE SOLDIER WAS ALSO WOUNDED IN THE CLASHES.</p><p>SIMILARLY, THREE PEASANTS HAVE BEEN SHOT TO DEATH BY ALLEGED EPL MEMBERS IN A RURAL AREA OF TIERRA ALTA MUNICIPALITY, CORDOBA DEPARTMENT. MEANWHILE, TWO OTHER PEASANTS, WHO WERE ACCUSED OF HELPING THE POLICE, HAVE BEEN SHOT TO DEATH BY ALLEGED ELN MEMBERS IN BARBACOAS, YONDO MUNICIPALITY, ANTIOQUIAN MIDDLE MAGDALENA.</p><p>FINALLY, ELN GUERRILLAS BLEW UP A PRIVATE PLANE CAUSING PROPERTY DAMAGE IN THE MILLIONS IN NUEVA FLORIDA, MIRAFLORES MUNICIPALITY, BOLIVAR DEPARTMENT.</p></body></html>