<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0724"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0724"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0724</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0724 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 13 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT DENOUNCES BEFORE THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY THE MEDDLING OF THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT IN THE ACT OF AGGRESSION AGAINST THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AT THE HANDS OF FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] TERRORIST GROUPS. IN A SPEECH ON 12 NOVEMBER, NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ORTEGA OPENLY MADE IRRESPONSIBLE STATEMENTS REGARDING DEVELOPMENTS IN EL SALVADOR WHICH ARE TOTALLY REMOVED FROM REALITY. PRESIDENT ORTEGA SAID THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT IS ATTACKING THE PEOPLE WHEN THE TRUTH IS THAT THE FMLN UNLEASHED THIS TERRORIST ESCALATION BY USING WEAPONS AND AMMUNITIONS SUPPLIED BY THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT.</p><p>THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY SHOULD INVESTIGATE THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT'S MEDDLING IN THIS CRIMINAL ATTACK ON THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE MORE CLOSELY. THE PUBLIC KNOWS THAT MAJOR CRIMES HAVE BEEN PLANNED ON NICARAGUAN TERRITORY, EVEN AGAINST FMLN LEADERS. THE LATE TOP FMLN LEADER, CAYETANO CARPIO, ORDERED THE MURDER OF MELIDA ANAYA MONTES, WHOM THE REBELS CALLED COMMANDER ANA MARIA FROM NICARAGUA. FMLN COMMANDER JOAQUIN VILLALBOS, WHO ORDERED THE MURDER OF MARXIST POET ROQUE DALTON GARCIA, CONTINUES TO LIVE IN NICARAGUA. THE MARXIST - LENINIST CONSPIRACY WHICH WANTS TO SUBJECT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE TO A TOTALITARIAN DICTATORSHIP IS PLANNED, LED, AND IMPLEMENTED ON NICARAGUAN TERRITORY.</p><p>HOWEVER, THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WHO HAVE SUFFERED FOR MANY YEARS FROM THE BLOODTHIRSTY FMLN ATTACKS, KNOW THAT FMLN IS THE ONE WHO HAS CRUELLY MURDERED CHILDREN, WOMEN, AND THE ELDERLY, AND HAS NOT RESPECTED SEX OR AGE. THIS IS THE FMLN THAT IS MERCILESSLY ATTACKING THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. AT PRESENT, THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES ARE FULFILLING THEIR CONSTITUTIONAL MANDATE TO PROTECT AND DEFEND LIVES AND THE PROPERTIES OF SALVADORAN SOCIETY. THE FMLN HAS FAILED IN ITS TERRORIST OFFENSIVE. IT ENTERED THE CITY, THE WAY ALL COWARDS ENTER TO KILL BY SURPRISE AND IN COLD BLOOD DEFENSELESS PEOPLE.</p><p>HOWEVER, THE PEOPLE'S ARMED WING, NAMELY, THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES, HAVE REPELLED THE AGGRESSORS WHO ARE BEING DIRECTED FROM NICARAGUA WITH PROFESSIONALISM. SO FAR, NOT ONE OF THE COWARDLY FMLN LEADERS HAS SHOWN UP IN SALVADORAN TERRITORY. THESE CRIMINALS HAVE PUSHED THEIR MURDEROUS HOARDES TO INDISCRIMINATELY FIRE AT THE ENTIRE CIVILIAN POPULATION. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE HAVE CONDEMNED, REJECTED, AND REPUDIDATED THE FMLN'S TERRORIST ATTACK.</p><p>THE MURDEROUS LEADERS BELIEVED THAT THE PEOPLE WOULD RALLY BEHIND AND ACCOMPANY THEM IN THEIR FAILED REBELLIOUS OFFENSIVE; THEY TRIED TO HAND OUT WEAPONS IN SOME TOWNS. JUST AS THE PEOPLE TURNED THEIR BACKS ON THE TERRORISTS AT THE POLLS, THEY REJECT THEM NOW ONCE AGAIN BECAUSE THEY KNOW THAT THE FMLN IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THEIR HUNGER, POVERTY, AND SUFFERING. TO THE FREE PEOPLES OF THE WORLD WHO RESPECT THE PRINCIPLE OF NONINTERVENTION IN THE INTERNAL AFFAIRS OF STATES, THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND GOVERNMENT DEMAND THE CONDEMNATION OF THE MEDDLING BY THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT WITH ITS LOGISTICAL SUPPORT TO THE FMLN AND THAT NICARAGUA STOPS LENDING ITS TERRITORY FOR THE AGGRESSION AGAINST THIS NATION THAT WANTS TO LIVE PEACEFULLY IN DEMOCRACY BASED ON A RESPECT FOR THE LAW AND FULL LIBERTY.</p></body></html>