<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0134"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0134"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0134</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0134 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 18 MAR 89 (RADIO CADENA SONORA) -- [TEXT] WE ARE GOING TO GIVE YOU A REPORT ON SOMETHING THAT HAPPENED A FEW MINUTES AGO IN THE CENTER OF SAN SALVADOR. WE HAVE ON THE TELEPHONE A LISTENER WHO IS GOING TO TELL US ABOUT TWO EXPLOSIONS JUST BEFORE NOON THAT LEFT AT LEAST FIVE PERSONS WOUNDED. PLEASE GO AHEAD WITH THE REPORT.</p><p>[LISTENER] SONORA LISTENERS, THIS IS A LAST MINUTE REPORT. JUST A FEW MINUTES AGO, AT 1130, TWO BOMBS EXPLODED HERE AT THE EASTERN END OF THE CENTRAL MARKET. FIVE PERSONS WERE SERIOUSLY WOUNDED IN THIS TERRORIST ATTACK. THEY WERE JUST TAKEN TO THE ROSALES HOSPITAL. THE WOUNDED INCLUDE A CHILD AND A WOMAN. WE DID NOT GET THEIR NAMES BECAUSE THE AUTHORITIES DID NOT LET US DO SO. RED CROSS PERSONNEL TOOK THE WOUNDED TO ROSALES HOSPITAL.</p><p>THE PEOPLE AROUND HERE ARE VERY FRIGHTENED AND ARE RUNNING AROUND. THE PEOPLE WERE BUYING FOOD WHEN THE EXPLOSIONS OCCURRED. THEY ARE NERVOUS AND ARE TRYING TO QUICKLY FIND TRANSPORTATION. THE EXPLOSIONS WERE HEARD FAR FROM HERE. AT THE MARKET'S EASTERN GATE, WHERE THE FRUIT STANDS ARE LOCATED, WE WERE TOLD BY PASSERSBY THAT A MAN WORKING THERE WAS THE MOST SERIOUSLY WOUNDED BY THE BOMBS. ALL THE WOUNDED WERE TAKEN TO THE HOSPITAL.</p><p>THE TERRORISTS LEFT A COMMUNIQUE THAT WAS IMMEDIATELY PICKED UP BY THE NATIONAL POLICE.</p><p>THE PEOPLE ARE FLEEING THE MARKET. THEY CANNOT CONTINUE SHOPPING BECAUSE IT IS ASSUMED THIS WAS A WARNING TO KEEP THE PEOPLE FROM GOING OUT OR GOING TO VOTE.</p></body></html>