<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1296"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1296"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1296</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1296 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 21 MAY 90 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] A MILITARY SPOKESMAN HAS REPORTED THAT ONE CIVILIAN WAS KILLED AND FIVE OTHER PEOPLE, INCLUDING A POLICEMAN, WERE INJURED TODAY AS A RESULT OF THE EXPLOSION OF A GRENADE THROWN AT A POLICE PATROL CAR BY ALLEGED URBAN GUERRILLA COMMANDOS.</p><p>THE CIVILIAN WHO WAS KILLED HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED AS JOSE OVIDIO GOMEZ, A TAXI DRIVER, AND THE INJURED POLICEMAN IS RICARDO ANTONIO MARTINEZ. MARTINEZ AND THE OTHER PERSONS WHO WERE INJURED, SOME SERIOUSLY, WERE TAKEN TO A SAN SALVADOR MEDICAL CENTER.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE SOURCE, THE GRENADE WAS THROWN AT 0630 (1230 GMT) TODAY. THE ATTACK TOOK PLACE NEAR THE CENTRAL MARKETPLACE, SAN SALVADOR'S MOST IMPORTANT SUPPLY CENTER, WHICH IS VERY CROWDED AT THAT TIME OF DAY.</p><p>THE SOURCE ATTRIBUTED THE ATTACK TO URBAN GUERRILLA COMMANDOS, BUT THE GUERRILLAS HAVE NOT CLAIMED CREDIT FOR IT.</p><p>THIS IS THE FIRST ATTACK THAT HAS TAKEN PLACE IN THE SALVADORAN CAPITAL SINCE THE PEACE NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT BEGAN LAST WEDNESDAY IN VENEZUELA.</p><p>THE TALKS ARE IN THEIR SIXTH DAY TODAY AND THERE IS AN ATMOSPHERE OF OPTIMISM. ACCORDING TO SOURCES CLOSE TO THE DIALOGUE, IMPORTANT PROGRESS HAS BEEN MADE TO SECURE THE PACIFICATION OF EL SALVADOR, WHICH FOR A DECADE HAS BEEN ENDURING A CIVIL WAR IN WHICH MORE THAN 70,000 PEOPLE HAVE DIED.</p></body></html>