<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1074"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1074"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1074</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1074 (TRW)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 25 JAN 90 (EL DIARIO DE HOY) -- [TEXT] ON TUESDAY AFTERNOON THE POLICE IN WASHINGTON ARRESTED THE LEADERS OF A GROUP OF DEMONSTRATORS WHO HAD GATHERED IN FRONT OF THE CAPITOL TO DEMAND THE SUSPENSION OF MILITARY AID TO EL SALVADOR. A FEW HOURS LATER, REPRESENTATIVES OF SEVERAL CHURCHES ASSERTED THAT A PERSECUTION HAD BEEN LAUNCHED IN OUR COUNTRY AGAINST "RELIGIOUS PEOPLE" AND THAT THE AID SHOULD BE SUSPENDED FOR THAT REASON. THE FOREGONE CONCLUSION WAS THAT, BECAUSE OF THE SUSPENSION OF THE AID, OUR GOVERNMENT WOULD HAVE NO OTHER OPTION BUT TO NEGOTIATE WITH THE TERRORISTS.</p><p>THIS CAMPAIGN DATES BACK A LONG TIME. IT BEGAN WITH THE ARRIVAL IN EL SALVADOR OF SEVERAL JESUIT PRIESTS FROM LOVAINA UNIVERSITY IN THE EARLY 1960'S AND CONTINUED WITH THE FOUNDING OF UCA [JOSE SIMEON CANAS CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY], THE ACTIVE PARTICIPATION OF CERTAIN PRIESTS IN THE SUBVERSIVE MOVEMENTS, THE AGITATION LAUNCHED BY THE ALAS [NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED] PRIESTS, THE TRAGIC EPISODE INVOLVING MSGR OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO, AND THE USE OF THAT EPISODE BY THE LEFT. EL SALVADOR WAS, AND TO SOME EXTENT CONTINUES TO BE, THE SCENARIO IN WHICH THE "THEOLOGY OF LIBERATION" REACHED ITS ULTIMATE CONSEQUENCES BY PLACING THE INQUISITORIAL FANATICISM OF CERTAIN PRIESTS AND PASTORS SIDE BY SIDE WITH THE MOST RADICAL CURRENTS OF SOCIALISM.</p><p>THE VIRULENCE OF THE ONSLAUGHT WENT THAT FAR PARTLY BECAUSE OF THE PASSIVE ATTITUDE -- OR, RATHER, THE CONNIVING PERMISSIVENESS -- OF THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC REGIME, WHICH TRIED TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE STRIDENT CAMPAIGN TO FURTHER ITS OWN POLITICAL ENDS. DUARTE NEVER TRULY DISTANCED HIMSELF FAR FROM THE GUERRILLAS BECAUSE OF HIS ILL-DISGUISED IDEOLOGICAL LEANINGS, WHICH LED HIM TO COINCIDE IN GREAT PART WITH THE SUBVERSIVES' TENETS AND ABOVE ALL WITH THE FANCIFUL IDEA THAT THE PEOPLE APPROVED OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A COMMUNIST STATE IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>IT IS CERTAINLY DIFFICULT TO COUNTER ORGANIZED SLANDER, TAKING INTO CONSIDERATION HOW FAR CERTAIN NOTIONS HAVE GONE AND HOW MUCH SUPPORT THEY RECEIVE FROM THE NEWS MEDIA IN A LARGE PART OF THE WORLD. THE POSSIBILITIES OF SUCCESSFULLY COUNTERING THIS PROPAGANDA OFFENSIVE MAY NOT BE THE BEST, BUT IT WOULD BE WORSE TO REMAIN SILENT AND DO NOTHING. WE HAVE YET TO SEE THE ORGANIZATION OF A TRUE EFFORT TO REJECT THE PERMANENT DEFAMATION BEING WITHSTOOD BY THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THERE IS NO ANSWER TO THE ACCUSATIONS AND INSULTS ISSUED BY CERTAIN SECTORS, EITHER. TO ALLOW A PERSON WHO ACTS AS LEADER OF THE TERRORISTS' POLITICAL FRONT TO COME TO THE COUNTRY AND SCOLD PRESIDENT CRISTIANI WITHOUT HAVING THE AUTHORITIES ARREST HIM FOR HIS PARTICIPATION IN CRIMES PERPETRATED AGAINST THE REPUBLIC IS TO FALL INTO DANGEROUS EXTREMES OF TOLERANCE. WAS NOT JENNIFER CASOLO ALLOWED TO OPENLY REPRESENT THE SUBVERSIVES FOR MANY YEARS WITHOUT INVESTIGATING HER MORE CLOSELY? IS IT PERHAPS THAT THE LAWS ALLOW A FOREIGNER TO MEDDLE IN THE COUNTRY'S INTERNAL AFFAIRS?</p><p>HOW CAN JUDGES BE BANNED FROM CERTAIN INSTALLATIONS, SUCH AS THE THE BOMBED FENASTRAS [SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION] HEADQUARTERS, UNIVERSITIES, AND SIMILAR PLACES, WHEN THERE ARE SUFFICIENT GROUNDS TO SUSPECT THAT TERRORISTS ARE HIDDEN IN SUCH PLACES?</p></body></html>