<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0453"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0453"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0453</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0453 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 9 SEP 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] COLOMBIAN DEFENSE MINISTRY SPOKESMEN REPORTED TODAY THAT ARMY TROOPS DEALT A HARSH BLOW TO THE MEDELLIN DRUG CARTEL OVER THE PAST FEW HOURS. THE ARMY TROOPS SEIZED FIVE FARMS OWNED BY GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA, THE SECOND MOST IMPORTANT MEDELLIN DRUG CARTEL CHIEF.</p><p>ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL REPORTS, THE TROOPS ARRIVED AT A RURAL AREA IN CENTRAL BOYACA PORT MUNICIPALITY AND RAIDED FIVE FARMS WHICH, ACCORDING TO PRELIMINARY EVIDENCE, WERE USED BY THE MAFIA TO TRAIN RIGHTIST PARAMILITARY GROUPS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO SECRET POLICE INVESTIGATIONS, THE PARAMILITARY SQUADS WERE FORMED BY THE MEDELLIN CARTEL TO PROTECT ITS INTERESTS. THE MEMBERS OF THOSE SQUADS WERE TRAINED BY ISRAELI MERCENARIES HEADED BY FORMER LT COL JAIR KLEIN.</p><p>IT WAS REPORTED THAT SINCE THE BEGINNING OF THE COLOMBIAN OFFENSIVE AGAINST THE NARCO-CRIMINAL GROUPS 3 WEEKS AGO, JOINT ARMY AND POLICE TROOPS HAVE SEIZED 15 FARMS AND SEVERAL URBAN HOUSES OWNED BY GONZALEZ GACHA.</p><p>FREDDY RODRIGUEZ CELADES, 17, SON OF RODRIGUEZ GACHA, IS STILL UNDER ARREST, AFTER HAVING BEEN CAPTURED BY THE AUTHORITIES ALONG WITH OTHER DRUG TRAFFICKERS DURING AN OPERATION AGAINST ONE OF THE FARMS OWNED BY THE MAFIA LEADER.</p><p>MEANWHILE, IT WAS LEARNED TODAY THAT FERNANDO GALEANO BERRIO, SUSPECTED TO BE RODRIGUEZ GACHA'S FINANCE CHIEF, WHO WAS ARRESTED A FEW DAYS AGO, WAS RELEASED BY A CRIMINAL JUDGE.</p><p>GALEANO BERRIO LEFT HIS CELL ON THURSDAY, 7 SEPTEMBER, ALTHOUGH HE IS ONE OF THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS WHOSE EXTRADITION HAS BEEN REQUESTED BY THE UNITED STATES AND DESPITE BEING CHARGED WITH THE MURDER OF SEVERAL LEFTIST POLITICAL LEADERS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO INVESTIGATIONS, GALEANO WAS IN CHARGE OF HANDLING RODRIGUEZ GACHA'S FINANCES. THUS, THE POSSIBILITY THAT GALEANO WORKED CLOSELY WITH EDUARDO MARTINEZ ROMERO, MEDELLIN DRUG CARTEL FINANCE CHIEF, IS NOT RULED OUT. MARTINEZ ROMERO WAS EXTRADITED TO THE UNITED STATES ON WEDNESDAY, 6 SEPTEMBER.</p><p>REPORTS PUBLISHED BY THE BOGOTA MORNING NEWSPAPER EL TIEMPO INDICATE THAT THE AUTHORITIES HAVE CONFISCATED 50 VEHICLES OWNED BY DRUG BARON RODRIGUEZ GACHA.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE DOCUMENTS FOUND AT THE MEDELLIN CARTEL ACCOUNTING OFFICE, WHICH OPERATED IN THE MIDDLE OF DOWNTOWN BOGOTA, RODRIGUEZ GACHA COULD OWN APPROXIMATELY 400 VEHICLES, MANY OF THEM ARMORED VEHICLES OR VEHICLES WITH POWERFUL RADIO COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.</p><p>SIMILARLY, THE ARMY SEIZED A FARM OWNED BY PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA IN BOYACA PORT MUNICIPALITY. ESCOBAR IS CONSIDERED THE WORLD'S BIGGEST DRUG TRAFFICKER.</p><p>MILITARY SPOKESMEN SAID THAT ONE OF THE MANY MAFIA SCHOOLS FOR GUNMEN OPERATED AT THAT FARM. THOSE GUNMEN ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MASSACRES OF PEASANTS WHO WORKED IN THE NORTHWESTERN BANANA REGION OF URABA.</p><p>THE OPERATIONS AGAINST ESCOBAR GAVIRIA CONTINUED YESTERDAY WHEN THE GROUP OF MERCENARIES WHO SERVED AS ESCORTS FOR ESCOBAR GAVIRIA'S WIFE, MARIA VICTORIA HENAO, WAS BROKEN UP.</p><p>ACCORDING TO REPORTS, CLOSE AIDS OF THE CAPO WERE MEMBERS OF A CRIMINAL GROUP CALLED "LOVE FOR MEDELLIN." THIS GROUP IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MURDERS OF SEVERAL PROSTITUTES, HOMOSEXUALS, AND BEGGARS.</p><p>IT WAS ALSO KNOWN THAT THE MEMBERS OF THE AFOREMENTIONED GROUP PLACED A CAR BOMB ACROSS FROM THE MEDELLIN TELEPHONE COMPANY, INJURING FIVE PEDESTRIANS AND CAUSING MILLIONS OF PESOS IN PROPERTY DAMAGE.</p><p>THE DYNAMITE ATTACKS, WHICH HAVE BECOME THE MAFIA RESPONSE TO THE GOVERNMENT'S HEAVY OFFENSIVE, CONTINUED TODAY WHEN AN EXPLOSIVE DEVICE WENT OFF AT A PRIVATE FACTORY LOCATED IN NORTHWESTERN ITAGUI MUNICIPALITY.</p></body></html>