<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0754"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0754"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0754</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0754 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 15 NOV 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN ARMY TODAY ATTACKED BY LAND AND AIR THE GUERRILLAS WHO EARLY THIS MORNING OCCUPIED CIUDAD MERLIOT, A MIDDLE-CLASS RESIDENTIAL AREA IN SOUTHWESTERN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>AN "A-37" SALVADORAN AIR FORCE PLANE FLEW OVER THE AREA AND STRAFED CERTAIN POINTS, WHILE ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIERS WENT THROUGH THE STREETS AND INFANTRY SOLDIERS CONFRONTED THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) GUERRILLAS.</p><p>THE REBELS, WHO HAVE BEEN FIGHTING SINCE 11 NOVEMBER IN THE CAPITAL CITY, TOOK POSITIONS IN CIUDAD MERLIOT VERY EARLY THIS MORNING AND BURNED BUSES AND TRUCKS, AND THEN PLACED THE CHARRED VEHICLES AS BARRICADES ON THE MAIN ENTRANCES TO THE RESIDENTIAL AREAS.</p><p>THE GUERRILLAS ALSO CUT OFF ACCESS TO THE MAIN HIGHWAY JOINING SAN SALVADOR TO SANTA ANA, THE SECOND MOST IMPORTANT CITY IN THE COUNTRY, AND LA LIBERTAD PORT.</p><p>AT LEAST FIVE ARMY ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIERS WERE CONTINUOUSLY FIRING ON THE GUERRILLA POSITIONS IN CIUDAD MERLIOT.</p><p>"GET AWAY. THIS IS A PROHIBITED AREA. THERE IS HEAVY SHOOTING AGAINST THE GUERRILLAS," SHOUTED A SOLDIER FROM ONE OF THE ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIERS TO AN ACAN-EFE CORRESPONDENT WHO WAS MOMENTARILY TRAPPED ON ONE OF THE MAIN STREETS OF THE RESIDENTIAL AREA.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS ON 11 NOVEMBER BEGAN THE GREATEST MILITARY OFFENSIVE OF THE LAST 10 YEARS, INFLICTING OVER 1,000 CASUALTIES, ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL SOURCES.</p></body></html>