<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0535"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0535"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0535</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0535 (UMASS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 29 SEP 89 -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] WE REPORT TO YOU THE FOLLOWING CONSIDERATIONS RELATED TO THE PRESENT SITUATION IN THE SEARCH FOR A JUST AND LASTING PEACE IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>1. WE NOTE WITH DEEP CONCERN THAT THERE HAS BEEN AN ALARMING INCREASE IN HUMAN RIGHTS AND HUMANITARIAN WAR NORMS VIOLATIONS BY THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES. THESE VIOLATIONS CAN BE OBSERVED IN THE REPRESSION OF DEMONSTRATIONS, TORTURES, MURDERS, ARRESTS -- MORE THAN 400 IN THE PAST MONTH -- DISAPEARANCES, AND IN THE GOVERNMENT'S REFUSAL TO ALLOW MAIMED FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] MEMBERS TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY TO GET MEDICAL ATTENTION. THIS NORM IS STIPULATED IN THE GENEVA CONVENTION, AND THIS IS AN AGREEMENT THAT HAS BEEN SIGNED BY THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT. THIS SITUATION HAS BEEN CLEARLY DEMONSTRATED BY THE RESOLUTION ISSUED BY THE SUBCOMMISSION [30-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] PERIOD IN AUGUST 1989. MR CRISTIANI SAID THIS RESOLUTION WAS NOT TRUTHFUL.</p><p>2. GOVERNMENT SPOKESMEN AND MR CRISTIANI HIMSELF HAVE REPEATEDLY STATED THAT THE ACHIEVEMENT OF PEACE DEPENDS ON THE FMLN'S HALTING HOSTILITIES. THIS PRESENTS A UNILATERAL PLAN THAT HAS NOT BEEN AGREED UPON POLITICALLY, MILITARILY, OR OPERATIONALLY.</p><p>IN CONTRAST TO THESE STATEMENTS, WHEN THE FMLN UNILATERALLY DECLARED A TRUCE RECENTLY, MR CRISTIANI, OFFICIALS IN HIS ADMINISTRATION, AND MILITARY COMMANDERS STATED THAT THESE FMLN MEASURES WERE PROPAGANDISTIC AND THAT THE TRUCE WAS NOT RESPECTED. THEIR ARGUMENTS WERE ATTEMPTS TO JUSTIFY THE GOVERNMENT'S BREAKING OF THE TRUCE.</p><p>THESE EVENTS GIVE US ADDITIONAL GROUNDS FOR STATING THAT A DEFINITE AND UNCONDITIONAL HALT TO HOSTILITIES IS UNREALISTIC AND UNFEASIBLE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>