<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1172"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1172"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1172</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1172 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 16 MAR 90 (BARRICADA) -- [SPEECH] [NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ORTEGA] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE GOVERNMENT THAT TAKES OFFICE ON 25 APRIL CAN REST ASSURED, AS CAN MANY LATIN AMERICAN GOVERNMENTS, THAT THERE WILL NEVER AGAIN BE ANOTHER MILITARY COUP IN NICARAGUA. THE HUMBLE PEOPLE, THE PEASANTS, AND THE WORKERS CAN REST ASSURED THAT THE ARMY WILL SAFEGUARD THE FATHERLAND'S SOVEREIGNTY, IT WILL NOT TURN THE CANNONS AGAINST THE WORKERS.</p><p>I NEVER SAID THAT THE FSLN WOULD PERPETUALLY REMAIN IN THE GOVERNMENT, BUT THAT THE PEOPLE WOULD PERPETUATE THEMSELVES IN POWER. THAT I DID SAY!</p><p>OTHERS WILL SAY THAT THE SANDINISTS MADE MANY CONCESSIONS, BUT IF WE HELD ELECTIONS, IT WAS BECAUSE WE WERE CONVINCED THAT WE COULD LOSE, A NEW MODEL IN LATIN AMERICA THAT NOT ONLY GUARANTEES THE EXISTENCE OF DEMOCRACY, BUT ITS DEVELOPMENT AND DEEPENING. IT IS DEMOCRATIC TO CONSTANTLY QUESTION DEMOCRACY TO REFRESH, STRENGTHEN, AND DEEPEN DEMOCRACY.</p><p>THE CLEANEST AND MOST OBSERVED ELECTORAL PROCESS IS THE ONE THAT WAS CARRIED OUT IN NICARAGUA. WE HAVE NOTHING TO HIDE. THE REPORTERS SAID THAT IF WE WON THEY WOULD LEAVE, BUT SINCE WE LOST THEY HAVE STAYED ON TO SEE IF WE WILL SURRENDER POWER ON 25 APRIL.</p><p>ALTHOUGH IT IS TRUE THAT THE FSLN SUFFERED AN UPSET IN THE ELECTIONS, AS A POLITICAL FORCE THAT HAS BEEN THE VANGUARD OF THE PROCESS THAT LED THE COUNTRY TO DEMOCRACY, INDEPENDENCE, DIGNITY, AND SOVEREIGNTY, THE FSLN IS NOW CONSOLIDATING THE RESULTS OF DEMOCRACY. IT IS NOT TRUE THAT THE REVOLUTION HAS BEEN DEFEATED, BECAUSE IT HAS EMERGED FROM THE ELECTIONS STRONGER.</p><p>I AM PREPARING TO ACT AS THE OPPOSITION ALONGSIDE THE PEOPLE WHEN I AM NO LONGER PRESIDENT ON 25 APRIL. I AM A DEPUTY, BUT I PREFER TO BE IN THE NEIGHBORHOODS, THE FACTORIES, AND THE COUNTRYSIDE. I HAVE TOLD THE NICARAGUANS THAT WE MUST CONSOLIDATE THIS PROCESS, WHICH MEANS THE CONSOLIDATION OF DEMOCRACY IN NICARAGUA. WE MUST BE MORE CREATIVE AND IMAGINATIVE THAN EVER, BECAUSE WE WILL FACE NEW CHALLENGES THAT WILL BE ENRICHING TO US AS A REVOLUTION.</p><p>TO BE A CLANDESTINE OPPOSITION IS NOT THE SAME AS TO RULE FROM ABOVE. WE WILL NOW GOVERN FROM BELOW, AND WE WILL DEFEND POPULAR AND NATIONAL INTERESTS. THE RETURN OF SOMOZISM IS NOT SOUGHT. THE ELECTORAL VICTORY DOES NOT MEAN A RETURN OF THE COUNTERREVOLUTION, THAT CONTINUES TO THREATEN NICARAGUA. IF THE COUNTERREVOLUTION IS NOT DISARMED, THE NEW GOVERNMENT WILL ALSO HAVE TO CONFRONT THE COUNTERREVOLUTION, AND WE WILL FIGHT AS WE NEVER DID BEFORE.</p><p>THE UNITED STATES LIFTED THE EMBARGO AND OFFERED AID TO NICARAGUA. WE WILL NOT BE LIKE RIGHT-WING EXTREMISTS WHO SABOTAGE ECONOMIC EFFORTS. RESOURCES HAVE NOT BEEN OFFERED TO A CERTAIN PARTY, BUT TO ALL OF THE PEOPLE. NICARAGUA NOT ONLY DESERVES INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION, IT SHOULD BE INDEMNIFIED BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT.</p><p>WE HAVE FELT THE SOLIDARITY OF PEOPLE THE WORLD OVER, WE HAVE FELT THE SOLIDARITY OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE, WHO HAVE ALSO BEEN MURDERED BY THE COUNTERREVOLUTION IN OUR FATHERLAND. I HAVE HEARD OF EMOTIONAL EXAMPLES OF SOLIDARITY, SUCH AS BRYAN WILSON'S, WHO SAT IN FRONT OF A TRAIN THAT RAN OVER HIM, AND WHO TELLS ME HE FEELS PROUD TO BE ONE OF THE THOUSANDS OF AMPUTEES FROM THE WAR IN NICARAGUA.</p><p>THE BLOOD OF CHILEANS, AMERICANS, AND EUROPEANS WAS SHED IN NICARAGUA. I MUST THANK THIS HEROIC AND EXEMPLARY CHILE FOR THE MANNER IN WHICH IT HAS DISPLAYED ITS FONDNESS FOR THE NICARAGUAN PEOPLE THROUGH ME, AND I MUST TELL YOU THAT TODAY, MORE THAN EVER, THE SOLIDARITY OF PEOPLE WHO DEFEND THE CAUSE OF FREEDOM, SOVEREIGNTY, DEMOCRACY, AND INDEPENDENCE IS INDISPENSABLE.</p><p>THE FUTURE, IT IS SAID, BELONGS TO THE PEOPLE, BECAUSE THE PRESENT AND THE PAST ALSO BELONG TO THEM. THE REVOLUTION SHOULD BE REFRESHED, IT SHOULD BE WATERED WITH FRESH RAIN; ONLY THEN WILL THE TREES TURN GREEN AND THE FLOWERS BLOOM, ONLY THEN WILL THE REVOLUTIONARY PROCESSES BE UNDERSTOOD. WE COULD TALK FOR HOURS AND HOURS, BUT THIS IS NOT THE TIME TO TALK. IT IS THE TIME TO ACT.</p><p>THIS VISIT TO CHILE WILL BE UNFORGETTABLE FOR ME BECAUSE OF THE HAPPINESS, OPTIMISM, AND CONFIDENCE REFLECTED IN THE FACES AND IN THE EYES OF THE CHILEAN PEOPLE.</p><p>THIS NIGHT WILL BE UNFORGETTABLE FOR ME. THEREFORE, I WISH TO PAY HOMAGE TO THOSE WHO WERE EXAMPLES OF LATIN AMERICAN DIGNITY AND ARE WITH US ALWAYS IN CHILE, NICARAGUA, AND LATIN AMERICA: SALVADOR ALLENDE AND PABLO NERUDA. LONG LIVE NICARAGUA!</p></body></html>