<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0411"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0411"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0411</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0411 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 29 AUG 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] RICALDONE INSTITUTE DIRECTOR FATHER GIUSSEPPE CORO PROTESTED TODAY THE MURDER OF A YOUNG MECHANICS STUDENT AND LATER ATTEMPTS TO INVOLVE THE INSTITUTE IN ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES IN THIS COUNTRY, WHICH IS AT WAR. THE RICALDONE INSITUTE IS ONE OF SEVERAL IMPORTANT SCHOOLS RUN BY SALESIAN PRIESTS IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>FATHER CORO STATED DURING A NEWS CONFERENCE THAT STUDENT MIGUEL ERNESTO MIRANDA REINA, 18, "WHO WAS THE BEST MECHANICS STUDENT IN THE INSTITUTE,' WAS DESPICABLY AND COWARDLY SHOT IN THE BACK WHEN HE WAS ABOUT TO APPROACH HIS HOUSE IN WESTERN SAN SALVADOR ON 22 AUGUST. FATHER CORO ACCUSED THE "ATLACATL" BATTALION SOLDIERS, PARTICULARLY AN OFFICER, "A LIEUTENANT, SERGEANT, OR WHOMEVER," WHO LATER ATTEMPTED TO DISTORT THE EVENT BY STATING THAT THE YOUNG STUDENT WAS A "REBEL" BECAUSE HE WORE REBEL BOOTS AND HAD A REBEL BOOK.</p><p>THE SALESIAN PRIEST, WHO HAS LIVED IN THIS CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRY FOR THE PAST 16 YEARS, SAID THAT THE STUDENT WAS RETURNING HOME AFTER WORKING ON HIS THESIS AS HE WAS TO GRADUATE THIS YEAR. THE STUDENT WORE THE SCHOOL'S UNIFORM, HAD HIS IDENTIFICATION PAPERS, AND CARRIED A BOOK ON RELIGION THAT SHOWED JESUS CHRIST WITH A BEARD ON ITS COVER.</p><p>FATHER CORO STATED THAT SINCE IT WAS NOT ENOUGH TO KILL AN INNOCENT YOUNG MAN WHO WAS AN HONOR STUDENT, THE SOLDIERS HAD STARTED TO KEEP A WATCH ON THE INSTITUTE, TO STOP STUDENTS TO HARRASS THEM MENTALLY BY ASKING THEM IF THEY KNEW MIRANDA REINA, TO PLACE A CHECKPOINT IN FRONT OF THE MURDERED STUDENT'S HOME, AND OTHER SIMILAR MEASURES. HE ADDED THAT IF THESE MEASURES ARE NOT STOPPED, THE SALESIAN COMMUNITY IN EL SALVADOR WILL PROTEST TO THE MILITARY HIGH COMMAND.</p><p>FATHER CORO STATED THAT THE SALESIAN COMMUNITY FEELS AFFECTED BY THESE ACTIONS AS THEIR SCHOOLS HAVE ALWAYS EDUCATED THE YOUNG SO THAT THEY CAN EARN A LIVILIHOOD AND THAT THESE MEASURES -- POSSIBLY ORDERED BY MID-LEVEL COMMANDERS -- HINDER THEIR ACTIVITIES AND CAUSES INSTABILITY IN THE STUDENT BODY THAT DOES NOT PROMOTE EDUCATIONAL ADVANCEMENT.</p></body></html>