<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1236"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1236"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1236</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1236 (BOEING)</p><p>BOGOTA, 26 APR 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE GOVERNMENT HAS ANNOUNCED A TOTAL OFFENSIVE TO CAPTURE MEDELLIN CARTEL BOSS PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA FOLLOWING THE DEATH YESTERDAY OF NINE PEOPLE IN AN ATTACK BY THE EXTRADITABLES IN MEDELLIN.</p><p>THE OFFENSIVE WAS ANNOUNCED AT THE END OF AN URGENT MEETING OF THE SECURITY COUNCIL CALLED BY GOVERNMENT MINISTER HORACIO SERPA URIBE, WHO IS ACTING PRESIDENT BECAUSE OF PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO'S TRIP TO NICARAGUA TO ATTEND THE INAUGURATION OF PRESIDENT VIOLETA CHAMORRO.</p><p>SERPA SAID THAT ESCOBAR HAS BECOME ENEMY NO. ONE AND NOTED THAT ALL OF THE AUTHORITIES' EFFORTS ARE NOW CENTERED ON HIS CAPTURE. THE MINISTER SAID THAT ESCOBAR IS BEHIND THE VIOLENCE ONSLAUGHT AND ASKED THE POPULATION TO COOPERATE WITH THE AUTHORITIES' EFFORTS TO CAPTURE HIM. "PABLO ESCOBAR IS BEHIND THE VIOLENCE ONSLAUGHT," THE GOVERNMENT MINISTER SAID.</p><p>NINE PEOPLE DIED AND APPROXIMATELY 50 WERE WOUNDED WHEN A CAR LOADED WITH 200 KG OF DYNAMITE EXPLODED IN A HEAVILY POPULATED DISTRICT IN MEDELLIN KNOWN AS LAS AMERICAS. POLICE SOURCES SAID THAT THE CAR BOMB, WHICH WAS CAMOUFLAGED WITH CONSTRUCTION WASTE, WAS SET OFF BY REMOTE CONTROL AT A PASSING ELITE POLICE PATROL.</p><p>THE EXPLOSION SERIOUSLY DAMAGED OVER 10 PRIVATE VEHICLES AND AT LEAST THREE BUSES WITH PASSENGERS AS WELL AS A DOZEN BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS AND PRIVATE RESIDENCES.</p><p>DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL OSCAR BOTERO RESTREPO SAID THAT THE ATTACK WAS THE WORK OF THE EXTRADITABLES, THE ARMED WING OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, ONE OF THE BIGGEST DRUG PROCESSING AND DRUG TRAFFICKING ORGANIZATIONS IN THE WORLD. MEDELLIN, COLOMBIA'S SECOND LARGEST CITY, IS THE HOME OF THE CARTEL AND OF ITS ARMED WING--THE EXTRADITABLES--WHICH DESCRIBED THEMSELVES IN MARCH AS A POLITICAL-MILITARY ORGANIZATION AND DECLARED WAR ON THE COLOMBIAN STATE.</p><p>THE EXTRADITABLES ANNOUNCED AT THE TIME THAT THEY WERE RELEGATING THEIR STRUGGLE TO PREVENT THE EXTRADITION OF COLOMBIANS TO THE UNITED STATES TO SECOND PLACE AND THAT THEIR TOP PRIORITY WOULD BE TO FIGHT THE STATE, THE OLIGARCHY AND THE MEMBERS OF THE POLICE WHO KIDNAP, TORTURE AND MURDER THE MEMBERS OF THEIR ORGANIZATION AND THEIR FAMILIES.</p><p>YESTERDAY'S ATTACK WAS THE SECOND TO BE CARRIED OUT AGAINST COLOMBIA'S SPECIAL ANTIDRUG AND COUNTERINSURGENCY ELITE POLICE CORPS. ON 11 MARCH ANOTHER CAR BOMB LOADED WITH OVER 100 KG OF DYNAMITE WAS EXPLODED AGAINST A POLICE VEHICLE ON THE FREEWAY SOUTH OF MEDELLIN. EIGHT POLICEMEN AND NINE CIVILIANS WERE KILLED IN THE EXPLOSION.</p></body></html>