<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0499"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0499"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0499</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0499 (UMASS)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 10 SEP 89 (MOSCOW) -- [REPORT] [LEONID LEVCHENKO] [TEXT] A U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE SPOKESMAN HAS INDICATED THAT WASHINGTON PROPOSES TO CONTINUE HELPING THE SALVADORAN REGIME UNTIL THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] COMBATANTS SURRENDER THEIR ARMS.</p><p>THE TIMING OF THIS STATEMENT IS REMARKABLE. LET US RECALL THAT LESS THAN 1 WEEK AGO REPRESENTATIVES OF THE REBEL FORCES AND THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT MET IN MEXICO, THUS LAUNCHING A DIALOGUE AIMED AT A NATIONAL RECONCILIATION. THE PARTIES AGREED TO CONTINUE THESE TALKS IN COSTA RICA ON 16 AND 17 OCTOBER, HOWEVER, EVEN THE FIRST ROUND OF TALKS IN MEXICO SHOWED THAT CONTINUING THE WAR WAS POINTLESS BECAUSE NEITHER OF THE PARTIES IS CAPABLE OF MILITARY DEFEATING THE OTHER. THUS, THE ONLY POSSIBLE VICTORY FOR ALL IS THE VICTORY OF COMMON SENSE. THIS CAN BE ACHIEVED ONLY THROUGH NATIONAL DIALOGUE. THE REBELS HAVE CORRECTLY MADE IT CLEAR THAT NO PRECONDITIONS CAN BE SET FOR CONTINUING DIALOGUE, AND LESS STILL CAN IT BE DEMANDED THAT THE FMLN COMBATANTS SHOULD UNILATERALLY SURRENDER THEIR ARMS.</p><p>IT SHOULD BE NOTED THIS DEMAND IS BEING MADE WHILE THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT IS GETTING CONSIDERABLE MILITARY AID FROM THE UNITED STATES AND, ACCORDING TO THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE SPOKESMAN, IT HAS NO PLANS TO DISCONTINUE THIS AID.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN MILITARY IS USING U.S.-MADE WEAPONS ONLY AGAINST THE REBELS AND NOT AGAINST ANY FOREIGN ENEMY. IT IS WELL KNOWN THAT THROUGHOUT THE 10 YEARS OF CIVIL WAR IN EL SALVADOR, THE UNITED STATES HAS SUPPLIED ALMOST $4 BILLION WORTH OF MILITARY AND NONMILITARY AID TO THAT COUNTRY. THANKS TO THIS ASSISTANCE, 70,000 SALVADORANS HAVE BEEN KILLED AND OVER 1 MILLION PEOPLE HAVE HAD TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY TO SAVE THEIR LIVES.</p><p>WE CAN SEE THAT ADDITIONAL U.S. MILITARY AID WILL INFLICT FURTHER UNTOLD SUFFERING AND MISFORTUNES ON THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. PUTTING AN END TO THIS ASSISTANCE AND TO ANY FURTHER INTERFERENCE IN SALVADORAN DOMESTIC AFFAIRS WOULD HELP DISPEL MUTUAL DISTRUST AND WOULD CREATE IN THE COUNTRY AN ATMOSPHERE FAVORABLE TO NATIONAL DIALOGUE. WASHINGTON'S DEMANDS THAT THE REBELS SHOULD SURRENDER THEIR ARMS AS A PRECONDITION FOR WASHINGTON TO RECONSIDER THE ISSUE OF MILITARY AID TO THE SALVADORAN REGIME REPRESENTS, AS FAR AS I AM CONCERNED, UNACCEPTABLE INTERFERENCE IN EL SALVADOR'S DOMESTIC AFFAIRS.</p><p>UNDOUBTEDLY, THE PROCESS OF NATIONAL RECONCILIATION MUST TAKE PLACE FREE OF ANY FOREIGN INTERFERENCE WHATSOEVER. I WOULD LIKE TO QUOTE JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS, A REBEL LEADER, WHO TOLD THE NEW YORK TIMES THAT THE END OF U.S. MILITARY AID TO THE SALVADORAN REGIME WOULD LEAD TO AN IMMEDIATE END TO THE WAR.</p></body></html>