<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1091"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1091"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1091</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1091 (UNISYS)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 6 FEB 90 (TELEONCE TELEVISION) -- [REPORT] [TEXT] THIS MORNING PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO HOSTED A NEWS CONFERENCE AT THE PRESIDENT'S PALACE OFFICE. THE PRESIDENT WAS ASKED ABOUT THE HUMAN RIGHTS SITUATION IN OUR COUNTRY. IN ADDITION, [WORDS INDISTINCT] PRESENTED BY THE UNITED NATIONS RAPPORTEUR OF THE UN HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CEREZO] [WORDS INDISTINCT] OF THE COMMISSION THAT HAS ARRIVED IN GUATEMALA [WORDS INDISTINCT]. WE ALL MUST ADMIT THAT IN 1989 THERE WAS [WORDS INDISTINCT] THAT CREATED AN ATMOSPHERE OF TERRORISM AND [WORDS INDISTINCT]. ON VARIOUS OCCASIONS AND IN SEVERAL CRIMINAL AND POLITICAL CASES, IT WAS DECIDED THAT [WORDS INDISTINCT] THAT CONTINUES PROGRESSING, BUT THERE IS AN EVEN BETTER WAY YET. THE TRUTH OF THE MATTER IS THAT THE INSTITUTIONS THAT ARE GOING TO PROTECT HUMAN RIGHTS ARE MAKING MORE PROGRESS EACH DAY AND BECOMING MORE OPERATIONAL. THE AUTHORITIES ARE BECOMING MORE COOPERATIVE EVERY DAY WITH THE VARIOUS INSTITUTIONS THAT ARE CONCERNED ABOUT THE HUMAN RIGHTS SITUATION.</p><p>[WORDS INDISTINCT] TO CREATE A NEW SYSTEM FOR LOCATING MISSING PEOPLE. WE HAVE FOUND A SYSTEM THAT ALLOWS US TO LOCATE MANY MISSING PEOPLE, AND [WORDS INDISTINCT]. [PASSAGE INDISTINCT].</p><p>FRANKLY SPEAKING, [NAME INDISTINCT] IS A SERIOUS MAN WHO DESERVES ALL OF MY TRUST AND RESPECT FOR HIS CAPABILITIES. HE HAS SAID THAT WE HAVE PROBLEMS IN CONTROLLING SOME TERRORIST GROUPS, AND WHAT WE NEED IS ASSISTANCE IN IMPROVING OUR EFFICIENCY. HE HAS POINTED OUT SOME DEFECTS IN OUR PENAL PROCEDURES WHICH MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR US TO KEEP THESE PEOPLE IN PRISON.</p><p>HOWEVER, HIS CONCLUSIONS DO NOT NECESSARILY MEAN THAT WE ARE GETTING WORSE. THAT HAS NOT BEEN MENTIONED IN THE NEWS. HIS CONCLUSIONS NOTES THAT IN SPITE OF THESE OBSERVATIONS THAT HE HAD TO MAKE AS UNITED NATIONS OBSERVER FOR GUATEMALA, THE SITUATION IN OUR COUNTRY HAS OBVIOUSLY IMPROVED, COMPARED TO THE PREVIOUS YEARS. WE ARE TAKING ALL OF THIS INTO CONSIDERATION. THIS HAS BEEN INCLUDED IN A WRITTEN REPORT THAT WILL BE NOTED IN GENEVA IN ORDER TO CONSIDER TREATMENT FOR GUATEMALA. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>