<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1083"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1083"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-31"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1083</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1083 (UNISYS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 31 JAN 90 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS TODAY REAFFIRMED THEIR WILLINGNESS TO MEET WITH THE GOVERNMENT AND THE UN SECRETARY GENERAL TO AGREE ON A DATE TO RESUME THE DIALOGUE AND THEY PROPOSED A CEASE-FIRE IN EXCHANGE FOR A SUSPENSION OF U.S. AID.</p><p>IN A COMMUNIQUE FROM THE GENERAL COMMAND, THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) EXPRESSED THE NEED TO "REORIENT" THE TERMS OF THE DIALOGUE AND NEGOTIATION SO AS TO TURN THEM INTO A NATIONAL PROCESS IN WHICH ALL THE COUNTRY'S SOCIAL AND POLITICAL FORCES CAN PARTICIPATE.</p><p>"WE BELIEVE THE U.S. AID TO THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT IS DIRECTED AGAINST DEMOCRATIZATION AND THE POLITICAL SOLUTION OF THE CONFLICT. THE SUSPENSION OF THAT AID COULD FORM PART OF A NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT THAT WOULD SIMULTANEOUSLY ENTAIL A CEASE-FIRE," THE COMMUNIQUE STATED.</p><p>THE FMLN'S MESSAGE COINCIDED WITH PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S VISIT TO THE UNITED NATIONS, WHERE TODAY HE WILL MEET WITH JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR TO REQUEST HIS GOOD OFFICES TO ACHIEVE THE RESUMPTION OF THE TALKS WITH THE REBELS, WHICH HAD BEEN SUSPENDED IN OCTOBER.</p><p>THE GUERRILLAS STATED THAT THEY HOPE THAT CRISTIANI'S MEETING WITH PEREZ DE CUELLAR WILL LEAD TO SETTING A DATE FOR A FUTURE MEETING.</p><p>NEVERTHELESS, THE FMLN RECALLED THE 11 NOVEMBER OFFENSIVE AND WARNED THAT THE GOVERNMENT'S INSISTENCE OF THE GUERRILLAS' ALLEGED MILITARY WEAKNESS "WILL ONLY LEAD TO GREATER LEVELS OF CONFRONTATION."</p><p>THE GUERRILLAS EXPRESSED THEIR "CONCERN" ABOUT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND ARMY'S REJECTION OF PEREZ DE CUELLAR'S MEDIATION ROLE, DESCRIBING THE REJECTION AS "AN OBSTACLE TO A PROCEDURE DESIGNED TO BRING SERIOUSNESS TO THE NEGOTIATING EFFORT."</p><p>"ON OUR PART," THE COMMUNIQUE STATED, "WE ACCEPT THAT MEDIATION AND WE HAVE MADE EFFORTS TOWARD ACHIEVING IT."</p><p>THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT WANTS PEREZ DE CUELLAR TO PLAY ONLY THE ROLE OF OBSERVER IN THE DIALOGUE PROCESS.</p><p>SINCE ALFREDO CRISTIANI TOOK OFFICE ON 1 JUNE, THE GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN HAVE HELD TWO ROUNDS OF TALKS, THE FIRST IN MEXICO IN SEPTEMBER AND THE SECOND IN COSTA RICA IN OCTOBER.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT MAINTAINS THAT THE FMLN SHOULD GIVE UP ITS WEAPONS AND JOIN THE POLITICAL PROCESS AS A PARTY. HOWEVER, THE GUERRILLAS DEMAND A PURGE OF THE ARMED FORCES AND AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION IN EXCHANGE FOR A CEASE-FIRE.</p></body></html>