<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0765"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0765"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0765</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0765 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 16 NOV 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] COMMANDER FACUNDO GUARDADO, ONE OF THE FOUNDERS OF THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLA MOVEMENT IN THE PAST DECADE, TODAY SAID THAT THE ARMY'S COUNTEROFFENSIVE IN SAN SALVADOR "IS AT A STALEMATE," WHILE THE "REBELS ARE ADVANCING."</p><p>GUARDADO, WEARING AN OLIVE GREEN UNIFORM, TOLD THE PRESS THAT THE GUERRILLAS' OFFENSIVE, WHICH BEGAN ON 11 NOVEMBER, SURPRISED THE ARMED FORCES AND THE UNITED STATES, WHICH HAS "MOTIVATED WARMONGERING SECTORS IN THIS COUNTRY TO CONTINUE REPRESSION."</p><p>THE GUERRILLA LEADER, KNOWN AS "ESTEBAN," SAID: "WE ARE WILLING TO NEGOTIATE WITH THE GOVERNMENT A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE WAR FROM HERE [SAN SALVADOR], WHILE WE CONTINUE TO HOLD THESE TERRITORIES (IN SAN SALVADOR)." HE ADDED: "WE WOULD HAVE TO ASK ARMY CHIEFS IF THESE ARE THE SO-CALLED UNDELIMITED BORDER AREAS BORDERING HONDURAS."</p><p>THE SALVADORAN ARMY HAS REPEATEDLY CHARGED THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) WITH SEEKING REFUGE IN "UNDELIMITED BORDER AREAS" IN DISPUTE WITH HONDURAS.</p><p>GUARDADO WAS INTERVIEWED NEAR A CLINIC IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR. HE WAS SURROUNDED BY PEOPLE WHO COMPLAINED TO THE PRESS OF THE SALVADORAN AIR FORCE'S "INDISCRIMINATE" BOMBINGS.</p><p>"WE HAVE BEEN FORCED TO LEAVE OUR HOMES. WE DO NOT KNOW WHAT TO DO. WE ASK YOU (THE PRESS) TO REPORT THAT THE AIR FORCE IS BOMBING THESE NEIGHBORHOODS," A MAN WHO WAS CARRYING A WHITE FLAG AND SAYING GOOD-BYE TO HIS NEIGHBORS SAID.</p><p>THE GUERRILLAS PRESENTED TO THE PRESS TWO SOLDIERS WHO WERE DETAINED ON 15 NOVEMBER AS SOLDIERS TRIED TO EXPEL REBELS FROM MEJICANOS, A DENSELY POPULATED NEIGHBORHOOD IN SAN SALVADOR. THE SOLDIERS, APPROXIMATELY 25 YEARS OLD, IDENTIFIED THEMSELVES AS JOSE FRANCISCO RAMIREZ AND SANTOS LOPEZ. "WE WERE CAPTURED YESTERDAY. WE WERE TREATED WELL AND HAVE BEEN FED. WE DO NOT CONSIDER OURSELVES PRISONERS OF WAR," RAMIREZ SAID. LOPEZ SAID HE HAD ENTERED THE MEJICANOS AREA WITH 45 OTHER SOLDIERS, BUT "ALL OF THEM LEFT."</p></body></html>