<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0072"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0072"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-02-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0072</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0072 (NOSC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 7 FEB 89 -- [TEXT] MAJOR ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON YESTERDAY STATED: "I HAVE WITHSTOOD THE LOWEST SLANDER FOR 8 YEARS. GOD ALMIGHTY AND MY CONSCIENCE KNOW I HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH THAT REPUDIATED MURDER.</p><p>"EVERY TIME THERE ARE ELECTIONS, WE HEAR THE SAME RUMORS THAT THERE IS EVIDENCE ABOUT MSGR OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO'S CASE AND THAT IT WILL BE PRESENTED. THUS, A GREAT SHOW IS PRESENTED, BUT ONCE THE ELECTIONS ARE OVER NO ONE REMEMBERS THAT MARTYR OF THE CHURCH.</p><p>"DUARTE'S GOVERNMENT, SUPPORTED BY THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY, PDC, RESORTS TO VILE DEFAMATION, SLANDER, AND LIES AGAINST ITS POLITICAL OPPONENTS BECAUSE IT CANNOT HIDE ITS CORRUPTION."</p><p>THIS STATEMENT WAS ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE, ARENA, DEPUTY TO REJECT THE ANNOUNCEMENT ISSUED BY THE GOVERNMENT, "IN A NATIONAL RADIO AND TELEVISION NETWORK," THAT IMPLICATED D'AUBUISSON "IN MSGR OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO'S DEATH."</p><p>"I AM SORRY I DID NOT SEE THE BROADCAST, BUT OTHERS HAVE COMMENTED ON IT. I CAN VERY WELL IMAGINE ALL THE DESPICABLE THINGS THAT WERE IRRESPONSIBLY SAID TO TWIST THE TRUTH SO THE PDC COULD AGAIN USE MSGR ROMERO'S DEATH AS AN ELECTION ISSUE. IT IS ALL PART OF THE PDC'S PROPAGANDA, BUT THE TRUTH WILL ALWAYS PREVAIL," D'AUBUISSON SAID.</p><p>"THE MOST REPREHENSIBLE THING IS THAT THE DUARTE ADMINISTRATION USES RADIO AND TELEVISION STATIONS, OPENLY ABUSING ITS AUTHORITY, TO SLANDER ME--SIMPLY BECAUSE I AM THE PDC'S POLITICAL ADVERSARY, AND BECAUSE THE PDC HAS NO EXCUSE TO JUSTIFY THE CRISIS THAT HAS BEEN CAUSED BY ITS CORRUPTION."</p><p>D'AUBUISSON ADDED: THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATS' "LIE" IS AIMED AT DECEIVING SALVADORAN CATHOLICS. THAT IS DESPICABLE AND UNSPEAKABLE, BECAUSE THEY ARE INSULTING MSGR ROMERO'S MEMORY.</p><p>THE PDC HAS GOVERNED THE COUNTRY FOR 8 YEARS. THE PDC CONTROLLED THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE WHEN MSGR ROMERO WAS KILLED. THE CRUCIAL QUESTION IS: WHY WEREN'T THE NECESSARY MEASURES TAKEN TO CLARIFY THE CASE AT THE TIME? WHY DOES THE GOVERNMENT CLAIM IT HAS THE EVIDENCE YET FAILS TO PRESENT IT? AH, BECAUSE THIS WOULD END THE GOVERNMENT'S POLITICAL GAME OF SAYING THAT IT IS INVESTIGATING MSGR ROMERO'S DEATH! THIS ENTIRE ATTITUDE IS REPREHENSIBLE, D'AUBUISSON STATED.</p><p>HE ASSERTED: I AM AWARE OF THE PDC'S INCREDIBLE PLOT TO SLANDER ME, BUT THE PDC ONLY SAYS WHAT IS CONVENIENT. IT IS A DIRTY GAME BUT GOD IS MY WITNESS; MY CONSCIENCE IS CLEAR. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE KNOW MY GREAT CRIME HAS BEEN TO STRUGGLE AGAINST THE MARXIST-LENINISTS. THE PDC CANNOT FORGIVE ME FOR THIS BECAUSE THEY ARE CLOSELY LINKED WITH THOSE WHO "ARE GREEN ON THE OUTSIDE [REFERENCE TO THE PDC'S PARTY COLORS] BUT RED ON THE INSIDE." HOWEVER, I WILL CONTINUE STRUGGLING LIKE A GOOD SALVADORAN SO THE "TURNCOATS" DO NOT BETRAY US, AS WAS THE CASE IN NICARAGUA, MAJOR ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON ARRIETA EMPHASIZED.</p></body></html>