<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1278"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1278"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1278</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1278 (BOEING)</p><p>NO CITY, NO DATE (FBIS) -- [TEXT] ACTING ON INFORMATION OBTAINED DURING QUESTIONING OF POLICEMEN INVOLVED IN THE LOCAL COCAINE TRADE, BRAZILIAN POLICE AGENTS SEIZED A LAB IN WESTERN MATO GROSSO DO SUL STATE IN EARLY APRIL. IN ADDITION, BROADCASTS AIRED IN THE STATE CAPITAL OF CORUMBA DENOUNCING THE DRUG PROBLEM AND POLICE INVOLVEMENT HAVE MADE A LOCAL RADIO STATION A TARGET OF BOMB THREATS FROM NARCOTRAFFICKERS, ACCORDING TO REPORTS IN THE BRAZILIAN PRESS. SUBSEQUENTLY, PRESIDENT FERNANDO COLLOR DE MELLO HAS LAUNCHED AN ANTIDRUG CAMPAIGN.</p><p>ON 7 APRIL FEDERAL POLICE OF MATO GROSSO DO SUL STATE RAIDED A WELL-EQUIPPED COCAINE REFINING LABORATORY ON A RANCH IN AQUIDAUANA, THE RIO DE JANEIRO DAILY O GLOBO OF 8 APRIL REPORTS. THE LAB WAS THE FIFTH UNCOVERED IN THE STATE IN THE LAST 14 MONTHS. AGENTS SEIZED 50 KILOS OF PROCESSED COCAINE, ONE OF THE LARGEST SEIZURES IN BRAZIL THIS YEAR, AND MORE THAN 100 LITERS OF ETHER AND ACETONE. TWENTY HEAVILY ARMED TRAFFICKERS WERE ARRESTED. WITH INADEQUATE POLICE STRENGTH AND BORDERING BOTH BOLIVIA AND PARAGUAY, THE STATE IS CONSIDERED ONE OF THE MAIN ROUTES FOR THE DRUG RINGS THAT SUPPLY COCAINE TO BRAZIL'S PRINCIPAL URBAN CENTERS, PARTICULARLY RIO AND SAO PAULO. THE TRAFFICKERS ALSO HAVE CONNECTIONS ABROAD.</p><p>THE LABORATORY IN AQUIDAUANA WAS DISCOVERED AS A RESULT OF THE RECENT ARREST OF EIGHT CIVILIAN POLICE DETECTIVES, TWO FEDERAL POLICEMEN, AND FOUR HIGHWAY POLICEMEN INVOLVED IN A NARCOTICS RING, CONTINUES O GLOBO. DURING QUESTIONING, THEY PROVIDED INFORMATION THAT LED TO THE OTHER MEMBERS OF THE RING, INCLUDING A BOLIVIAN CHEMIST IN AQUIDAUANA. THE RING WAS HEADED BY A MATO GROSSO DO SUL BUSINESSMAN AND A POLITICIAN WHO FINANCED THE TRAFFICKING ACTIVITIES AND PROVIDED COVER; NEITHER MAN WAS IDENTIFIED BY NAME IN THE REPORT. ACCORDING TO FEDERAL AGENTS, THE COCAINE PASTE WAS BROUGHT FROM BOLIVIA BY FISHERMEN AND CANOERS HIRED ON THE BRAZILIAN- BOLIVIAN BORDER, AND WAS PROCESSED AND DISTRIBUTED IN AQUIDAUANA.</p><p>O GLOBO TERMS THE RAID A "REAL CLEAN-UP" IN THE CIVILIAN, MILITARY, AND FEDERAL POLICE DEPARTMENTS. THE FIRST SUCH ACTION WAS TAKEN IN LATE 1989 WHEN FEDERAL POLICE ARRESTED 22 POLICEMEN. O GLOBO OF 2 APRIL CITES THE ARREST OF SIX MILITARY POLICEMEN CAUGHT IN THE ACT OF DISTRIBUTING COCAINE IN CAMPO GRANDE, MATO GROSSO DO SUL STATE, ADDING THAT THE RING INCLUDED MORE THAN 20 MILITARY POLICEMEN. THE RINGLEADER WAS OLDINEY FREIRE, AN ATTORNEY ARRESTED IN MARCH 1989 AND A CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF RANCHER CAMBARALAMAIA DE SOUSA. PRIOR TO HIS ARREST IN JUNE 1988, CAMBARALAMAIA CONTROLLED COCAINE TRAFFICKING IN A LARGE PORTION OF MATO GROSSO USING THE COCHABAMBA, BOLIVIA ROUTE. HE ALSO SUPPLIED 300 KILOS OF PURE COCAINE MONTHLY TO SAO PAULO, RIO DE JANEIRO, AND ESPIRITO SANTO.</p><p>RIO DE JANEIRO DAILY JORNAL DO BRASIL NOTES ON 17 APRIL THAT THE FEDERAL POLICE DEPARTMENT (DPF) IS INVESTIGATING CHARGES THAT FEDERAL POLICE ARE INVOLVED IN DRUG SMUGGLING AND TRAFFICKING IN CORUMBA AND LADARIO. TRAFFICKING IN THE REGION HAS INCREASED STEADILY IN RECENT YEARS DUE TO THE PROXIMITY TO BOLIVIAN TOWNS INCLUDED IN THE ROUTE USED BY INTERNATIONAL TRAFFICKING RINGS, ACCORDING TO THE PAPER. ACKNOWLEDGING THAT THERE HAVE BEEN SERIOUS PROBLEMS WITH THE FEDERAL POLICE IN MATO GROSSO DO SUL, DPF LEGAL COORDINATOR MARIO CASSIANO DUTRA SAID THAT IN FEBRUARY ALONE, FOUR INVESTIGATIONS WERE OPENED INTO CHARGES OF POLICE INVOLVEMENT IN DRUG AND ARMS TRAFFICKING AND BRIBERY, AN ADDITIONAL 12 WERE CURRENTLY IN PROGRESS, AND ANOTHER FIVE ONLY NEEDED DOCUMENTS IN ORDER TO BE CONCLUDED.</p><p>TO COMBAT THE GROWING NARCOTICS PROBLEM IN THE STATE CAPITAL OF CORUMBA, ON 11 APRIL LOCAL STATION RADIO CLUBE DE CORUMBA LAUNCHED AN ANTIDRUG CAMPAIGN. IT DEVOTED AN HOUR OF ITS REGULAR PROGRAM "PUBLIC DEBATE" TO AN EXPOSE OF DRUG DISTRIBUTION POINTS IN THE CITY AND THE COMPLICITY OF FEDERAL POLICE, MILITARY POLICE, AND CIVILIAN POLICE INVESTIGATORS WITH NARCOTRAFFICKERS. ACCORDING TO O GLOBO OF 12 APRIL, PROGRAM MODERATOR ARMANDO AMORIM ANACHE IDENTIFIED 21 COCAINE DISTRIBUTION POINTS AS WELL AS POLICEMEN AND THE TRAFFICKERS WHO SUPPLIED THEM IN EXCHANGE FOR PROTECTION.</p><p>AFTER THE PROGRAM, ANACHE RECEIVED FOUR THREATENING PHONE CALLS, INCLUDING A BOMB THREAT AGAINST THE BUILDING HOUSING THE RADIO STATION, O GLOBO OF 14 APRIL REPORTS. HE RECEIVED WIDESPREAD PUBLIC SUPPORT WHEN HE BROADCAST THOSE THREATS. RADIO CLUBE RECEIVED LETTERS ALERTING POLICE TO THE USE OF CHILDREN WHO PICK UP DRUGS FROM BOLIVIAN WOMEN AT THE RAILROAD STATION. A MOTHERS' PROTEST PARADE WAS PLANNED, AND 850 LOCAL BUSINESSMEN RESOLVED TO CLOSE THEIR DOORS FOR ONE DAY AS A SYMBOLIC PROTEST AGAINST THE TRAFFICKING SITUATION IN CORUMBA. ON 18 APRIL, THE STATION RECEIVED SIX BOMB THREATS FROM COCAINE TRAFFICKERS WHO ALSO THREATENED TO BOMB ITS SISTER STATION RADIO INDEPENDENTE DE AQUIDAUANA, O GLOBO OF 19 APRIL REPORTS.</p><p>WEARING A YELLOW T-SHIRT WITH THE SLOGAN "DRUGS: OUT OF HERE," PRESIDENT FERNANDO COLLOR DE MELLO LAUNCHED AN ANTIDRUG CAMPAIGN, O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO OF 29 APRIL REPORTED IN A FRONT-PAGE PHOTO WITH ACCOMPANYING INSIDE-PAGE ARTICLE. COLLOR THEN DONATED THE T-SHIRT TO THE FEDERAL POLICE FOR AN AUCTION TO RAISE FUNDS FOR EQUIPMENT, PARTICULARLY FOR MONITORING THE BORDER AREAS. THE MOTHERS OF CORUMBA ARE CONDUCTING THAT AUCTION, IN WHICH THE MINIMUM BID WILL BE 100,000 CRUZEIROS. COLLOR IS SEEKING THE PARTICIPATION OF THE ENTIRE SOCIETY. HE IS NOT INTERESTED IN JUST A HEALTH MINISTRY SPONSORED PROGRAM, O ESTADO REPORTS.</p></body></html>