<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0121"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0121"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0121</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0121 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 15 MAR 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] [TEXT] WE INFORM THE WORKING CLASS, STUDENTS, AND SALVADORAN PEOPLE IN GENERAL: AS OF 16 MARCH, THE DATE SET BY THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] TO BEGIN ITS NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION STOPPAGE, ALL OUR MILITIA UNITS WILL BE IN FIGHTING SPIRITS AND WILL ATTACK TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES SUCH AS TAXIS, MINIBUSES, PICKUP TRUCKS, GOVERNMENT VEHICLES, BUSES, [WORDS INDISTINCT], AND ALL VEHICLES THAT DO NOT ABIDE BY THE STOPPAGE. WE WILL BURN AND BLOW UP VEHICLES.</p><p>WE WARN THE POPULATION NOT TO RIDE MILITARY VEHICLES, BECAUSE THEY WILL BE AMBUSHED. IN EMERGENCY CASES AT NIGHT OR EARLY IN THE MORNING, PEOPLE SHOULD RIDE PRIVATE OR FIRST-AID VEHICLES AND SHOULD DISPLAY A WHITE FLAG. WE ALSO URGE THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE NOT TO VOTE, BECAUSE THAT VOTE WILL CONTRIBUTE TO WORSEN THE WAR AND WILL SUPPORT THE COUNTERINSURGENCY PLAN OF THE YANKEE IMPERIALISTS' AND THEIR SERVILE LOCAL AUTHORITIES.</p><p>IT HAS BEEN PROVED THAT NEITHER THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY NOR THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE WANT A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE WAR. IN RESPONSE TO THEIR REFUSAL, LET US NOT VOTE IN THE 19 MARCH ELECTIONS; LET US VOTE IN THE 15 SEPTEMBER ELECTIONS.</p><p>THAT MUST BE THE PEOPLE'S RESPONSE TO THE 19 MARCH ELECTIONS. THE BALLOT BOXES AND THEIR RESPECTIVE [WORD INDISTINCT] WILL BE SABOTAGED, AND PERSONNEL PARTICIPATING IN THAT ELECTION GAME WILL BE SUBSEQUENTLY ANNIHILATED, BECAUSE THEIR PARTICIPATION MEANS THEY AGREE WITH THE ELECTIONS AND SUPPORT THE WORSENING OF THE WAR.</p><p>NO TO THE 19 MARCH ELECTIONS, BECAUSE THEY ARE A DEMAGOGIC AND FRAUDULENT MANEUVER AND BECAUSE THEY ARE A DENIAL OF PEACE.</p></body></html>