<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0686"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0686"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0686</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0686 (GE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 13 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] WE HAVE A REPORT WHICH SAYS THAT FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] FORCES HAVE SEIZED CONTROL OF THE SAN SALVADOR - SANTA ANA HIGHWAY, INTERRUPTING TRAFFIC ALONG THIS IMPORTANT HIGHWAY TO SANTA ANA. THE 2D INFANTRY BRIGADE, WHICH IS LOCATED AT THE SANTA ISABEL NEIGHBORHOOD IN SANTA ANA, HAS BEEN ATTACKED, AND THE FIGHTING CONTINUED THROUGHOUT THE CITY EARLY THIS MORNING.</p><p>THE INFORMATION REVEALS THAT ROADBLOCKS HAVE BEEN BUILT ON THE HIGHWAY TO SAN SALVADOR AND THE ROAD TO TACACHICO. IT HAS ALSO BEEN CONFIRMED THAT THREE RIFLES WERE SEIZED FROM THE 2D INFANTRY BRIGADE TROOPS.</p><p>ATTENTION, REPORTS FROM THE CAPITAL CONFIRM THAT FIERCE FIGHTING HAS TAKEN PLACE AROUND THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE; AND LOTS OF RIFLES, MACHINEGUNS, AND OTHER WEAPONS WERE SEIZED FROM DEATH SQUAD LEADER [COLONEL FRANCISCO] ELENA FUENTES' TROOPS AT THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE. OUR MEN HAVE SEIZED THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE TROOPS' RIFLES AND MACHINEGUNS, WHILE AMBUSHES IN DIFFERENT POINTS OF THE CAPITAL HAVE MULTIPLIED.</p><p>THE ARMY'S DETACHMENTS HAVE BEEN IMMOBILIZED SO THE AIR FORCE HELICOPTERS ARE NOW BEING USED TO EVACUATE PERSONNEL, LANDING IN SEVERAL POINTS OF THE CAPITAL WHICH THE ARMY CANNOT REACH.</p><p>MEANWHILE, FMLN FORCES ATTACKED A POLICE PATROL CAR IN THE CAPITAL, ANNIHILATED ALL THE PASSENGERS, AND SEIZED THE VEHICLE.</p></body></html>