<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0483"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0483"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0483</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0483 (UMASS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 14 SEP 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 2) -- [REPORT] [HERNANDO CORRAL] [TEXT] THE THIRD PUBLIC JUDGE ISSUED ARREST WARRANTS FOR NORBERTO HERNANDEZ ROMERO AND RAFAEL RIVERA ALARCON AND CHARGED THEM WITH PARTICIPATING IN THE MURDER OF LIBERAL PARTY LEADER LUIS CARLOS GALAN SARMIENTO. THE SAME JUDGE ISSUED AN ARREST WARRANT FOR JAIME DE JESUS VALENCIA MARTINEZ AND CHARGED HIM WITH BEING THE MASTERMIND OF THE CRIME. THESE THREE PERSONS HAVE NOT BEEN ARRESTED AND ARE BEING SOUGHT THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.</p><p>LUIS ALFREDO GONZALEZ CHACON, PEDRO ZAMBRANO DELGADO, NORBERTO MURRILLO CHALARCA, ARMANDO BERNAL ACOSTA, HECTOR MANUEL ZEPEDA QUINTERO, AND ALBERTO JUBIS HASZVUMB WERE ARRESTED A FEW DAYS AGO IN BOGOTA AND CHARGED WITH BEING ACCOMPLICES TO THE CRIME. THE THIRD CIVIL JUDGE ALSO DECIDED TO RELEASE LUIS FELIPE TORRES, THE MAN WHO CARRIED A POSTER AND A HAT AT THE MURDER SCENE AND WHO WAS INITIALLY ACCUSED OF HAVING PARTICIPATED IN THE CRIME.</p><p>IT HAS BEEN REPORTED THAT JAIME DE JESUS VALENCIA MARTINEZ, THE ALLEGED MASTERMIND OF THE CRIME, OFFERED 50 MILLION PESOS TO POLICE OFFICIALS IN AN ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN THE RELEASE OF SIX PERSONS WHO HAD BEEN ARRESTED IN A LUXURY APARTMENT IN BOGOTA. VALENCIA IS ALSO CHARGED WITH BEING THE OWNER OF THE MACHINEGUN THAT WAS FOUND IN THE APARTMENT IN WHICH THE SIX SUSPECTS WERE ARRESTED.</p><p>THE DEFENSE CLAIMS THAT THERE IS A SWORN STATEMENT BY FORMER MINISTER CARLOS OBANDO VELASCO THAT CERTIFIES THAT HE WAS WITH JUBIS HAZVUMB ON THE DAY GALAN WAS KILLED. THE LAWYERS ALSO CLAIM THAT GALAN SARMIENTO WAS KILLED BY AN UZI SUBMACHINEGUN AND THAT THE ONE FOUND AT THE APARTMENT WHERE THE SIX SUSPECTS WERE ARRESTED WAS AN INGRAM. BALLISTIC TEST RESULTS HAVE NOT YET BEEN REVEALED. THE DEFENSE LAWYERS HAVE APPEALED THE COURT DECISION, AND NOW THE COURT WILL HAVE TO DECIDE IF THE DECISION ISSUED BY THE THIRD PUBLIC JUDGE IS TO STAND.</p></body></html>