<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1295"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1295"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1295</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1295 (BOEING)</p><p>NO CITY, NO DATE (FBIS) -- [EDITORIAL REPORT] [TEXT] FOLLOWING IS A COMPILATION OF REPORTS ON DRUG SEIZURES AND ARRESTS RELATED TO DRUG TRAFFICKING IN BUREAU COVERAGE AREA FROM 11 MAY TO 18 MAY.</p><p>COLOMBIA</p><p>NATIONAL POLICE IN BOGOTA DISMANTLED THREE COCAINE PROCESSING LABORATORIES AND SEIZED ONE TON OF COCAINE, IT WAS REPORTED ON 17 MAY.</p><p>HONDURAS</p><p>HONDURAN POLICE IN TEGUCIGALPA SEIZED SIX TONS OF MARIJUANA AT A PLANTATION LOCATED IN OCOTEPEQUE DEPARTMENT IN THE COUNTRY'S WESTERN REGION. THE POLICE INTERROGATED SEVERAL PERSONS LINKED WITH THE DRUGS AND REPORTED THAT THE MARIJUANA HAD A MARKET VALUE OF $1 MILLION.</p><p>POLICE LIEUTENANT JOSE DANIEL AMADOR ORDONEZ REPORTED THAT HONDURAN CARLOS MANUEL LOPEZ MATA WAS THE OWNER OF THE PLANTATION WHERE THE POLICE DISCOVERED MARIJUANA VALUED AT $8 MILLION LEMPIRAS. MATA ESCAPED TOGETHER WITH SALVADORANS LUIS AND GUILLERMO GUERRA WHO WERE ALSO CONNECTED WITH THE DRUGS FOUND. THE POLICE OFFICER SAID THE DRUGS WERE READY TO BE SHIPPED TO EL SALVADOR THROUGH THE BORDER REGION OF EL RINCON DE MARCHALA.</p><p>HONDURAN POLICE HAVE SEIZED 58 KG OF COCAINE WHICH DRUG BANDS INTENDED TO SMUGGLE INTO THE UNITED STATES. THE POLICE DISCOVERED THE DRUGS INSIDE VEHICLES WITH CAMOUFLAGED COMPARTMENTS IN THE NORTHERN CITY OF SAN PEDRO SULA, 255 KM FROM TEGUCIGALPA. THE TRAFFICKERS PLANNED TO TAKE THE DRUG FROM PANAMA TO THE UNITED STATES. FIVE HONDURANS AND COLOMBIAN RODOLFO ANTONIO MONTOYA WERE ARRESTED IN THIS CONNECTION. IT WAS ALSO LEARNED IN TEGUCIGALPA ON 18 MAY THAT COLOMBIAN DRUG LEADER GUILLERMO LEON VELASQUEZ, WHO IS AT THE SERVICE OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, WAS ARRESTED ON 15 MAY AND DEPORTED TO THE UNITED STATES WHERE HE IS ACCUSED OF KILLING A PERSON SIX YEARS AGO. THE REPORT ADDED THAT LEON VELASQUEZ, KNOWN IN MEDELLIN AS "CHIRUZA," IS RESPONSIBLE FOR SEVEN OTHER MURDERS.</p><p>MEXICO</p><p>FEDERAL JUDICIAL POLICE [PJF] AGENTS SEIZED 1,850 KG OF COCAINE WHEN A COLOMBIAN AIRCRAFT CRASHED IN THE TOWN OF ESCALON IN CIUDAD JUARES, CHIHUAHUA. THE DRUGS WERE BEING FLOWN TO THE UNITED STATES. PJF COMMANDER GUILLERMO GONZALEZ CALDERONI SAID THAT THE DRUGS WERE FOUND 30 KM NORTHEAST OF THE CITY OF JIMENEZ. THE DRUGS ARE REPORTED TO HAVE A MARKET VALUE OF 1 BILLION PESOS.</p><p>FEDERAL HIGHWAY POLICE IN SALTILLO REPORTED THAT 781 KG OF PURE COCAINE, WHICH WAS BEING TRANSPORTED IN A TRAILER FROM GUATEMALA TO HOUSTON, TEXAS, WAS SEIZED TODAY. POLICE COMMANDER JORGE ESLAVA SAID THAT ANGEL GUADALUPE RIVERA RIVAS, DRIVER OF THE TRAILER, AND BALTAZAR FIGUEROA MATEO, HIS ASSISTANT, WERE ARRESTED.</p><p>THE NATIONAL DEFENSE SECRETARIAT REPORTED ON 13 MAY THAT A TOTAL OF 632 KG OF MARIJUANA WERE SEIZED IN DIFFERENT OPERATIONS CARRIED OUT IN THE STATES OF JALISCO AND OAXACA FROM 8 TO 11 MAY. MOST OF THE PERSONS ARRESTED WERE TURNED OVER TO THE PERTINENT AUTHORITIES. THE REPORT ADDS THAT OVER THE SAME PERIOD A TOTAL OF 37 HECTARES (26 WITH POPPY PLANTS AND 11 WITH MARIJUANA) WERE DESTROYED AND 122 FIREARMS WERE SEIZED. THE SAME SOURCE ADDED THAT MEMBERS OF THE 18TH INFANTRY BATTALION IN IXCOTEL, OAXACA, CLASHED WITH DRUG TRAFFICKERS ON 10 MAY, RESULTING IN THE DEATHS OF A SOLDIER AND A CIVILIAN. THE POLICE ARRESTED 11 PERSONS AND SEIZED 300 KG OF MARIJUANA, TWO VEHICLES, AND LARGE CALIBER WEAPONS.</p><p>DURING OPERATIONS CARRIED OUT IN CIUDAD OBREGON, SALTILLO, AND MEXICALI, ANTIDRUG POLICEMEN SEIZED 1,382 KG OF COCAINE BASE AND ONE AND A HALF TONA OF MARIJUANA, AND ARRESTED 10 ALLEGED DRUG TRAFFICKERS, THE ATTORNEY GENERAL HAS REPORTED. IN MEXICALI, ANTINARCOTICS POLICEMEN SEIZED MORE THAN ONE AND A HALF TONS OF MARIJUANA AND ARRESTED FIVE DRUG TRAFFICKERS. DURING THE ENSUING CLASH, MARCO ANTONIO RESENDIZ GASTELUM, THE LEADER OF THE BAND, WAS KILLED.</p></body></html>