<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:dbp="http://dbpedia.org/resource/" xmlns:entity="urn:muc3:entity/" xmlns:this="urn:muc3:doc/DEV-MUC3-1299/" id="DEV-MUC3-1299"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1299"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1299</title></head><body vocab="http://schema.org/"><p>DEV-MUC3-1299 (BOEING)</p><p>BOGOTA, 21 MAY 90 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO] [TEXT] FELLOW COUNTRYMEN: I ADDRESS YOU AT A MOMENT WHEN ALL GOOD COLOMBIANS ARE FILLED WITH PAIN. TERRORIST ACTIONS HAVE BROUGHT SADNESS AND MOURNING TO DOZENS OF OUR POOR HOMES, AS WELL AS TO FAMILIES OF NATIONAL LEADERS. COLOMBIA'S ENEMIES HAVE DEDICATED THEMSELVES TO ATTACKING UNARMED CITIZENS. THEIR INSANE ACTIONS ARE ENDING THE LIVES OF INNOCENT CHILDREN, WOMEN, AND HONEST COLOMBIANS. AT THESE TRYING TIMES, I SEND ALL THOSE WHO HAVE SUFFERED THE CONSEQUENCES OF THIS IRRATIONAL WAVE OF MONSTROUS CRIMES MY DEEPEST SENTIMENTS OF SOLIDARITY. I WANT TO TELL ALL THE VICTIMS' RELATIVES AND FRIENDS THAT WE SHARE THEIR SORROW AND SADNESS.</p><p>THE COUNTRY AND ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT HAVE BEEN DEALT A STRONG BLOW TODAY. <span about="this:murder" property="description">ANOTHER GREAT MAN HAS BEEN ASSASSINATED</span>. <span about="entity:FEDERICO_ESTRADA_VELEZ" typeof="Person"><span property="description">LIBERAL LEADER</span> <span property="name">FEDERICO ESTRADA VELEZ</span><meta rev="object" resource="this:murder"/></span> <span about="this:murder" typeof="Action" property="description">WAS VIOLENTLY MURDERED<meta property="startTime" content="1990-05-21"/></span> <span about="this:place" typeof="Place" property="description">IN THE STREETS OF <span about="dbp:Medellín" typeof="Place" property="name">MEDELLIN</span></span>. THE LOSS OF <span about="entity:FEDERICO_ESTRADA_VELEZ" property="name">SENATOR ESTRADA VELEZ</span> LEAVES THE LIBERAL PARTY AND ANTIOQUIANS WITHOUT ONE OF ITS GREAT LEADERS. HE IS TO BE ADDED TO THE LIST OF MARTYRS THAT HAVE BEEN MURDERED FOR THEIR THOUGHTS AND BRAVE ATTITUDE IN CONFRONTING THE COUNTRY'S PROBLEMS. FEDERICO ESTRADA WAS A FIGHTER IN THIS ADMINISTARTION AND, AS OUR COLOMBIAN AMBASSADOR TO ITALY, CONTRIBUTED TO THE IMPROVEMENT OF RELATIONS WITH THAT COUNTRY AND WITH THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY. THE COUNTRY RECALLS HIM FOR HIS RECENT ACTIONS AS THE PROPONENT AND PROMOTER OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL REFORMS PROJECT AT THE SENATE. HIS BRILLANT POLITICAL AND PROFESSIONAL CAREER ALLOWED HIM TO REACH THE HIGHEST POSITIONS OF THE COLOMBIAN CONGRESS AND OF THE JUDICIAL BRANCH. HE WAS A SUPREME COURT MAGISTRATE, UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR, PARLIAMENTARIAN, THE NATIONAL AND DEPARTMENTAL LEADER OF THE LIBERAL PARTY, A PUBLIC SERVANT OF MANY YEARS, AND A TIRELESS WORKER FOR THE WELLBEING OF THE PEOPLE OF ANTIOQUA. HIS LIFE WAS ENDED AT A TIME WHEN THE COUNTRY AND HIS PARTY NEEDED HIS EXPERIENCE AND KNOWLEDGE.</p><p>TO HIS WIFE, HIS FOUR CHILDREN, HIS FOLLOWERS, AND ALL ANTIOQUEANS, I SEND A HEARTFELT MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE IN THE NAME OF ALL HIS FELLOW COUNTRYMEN. THE PEOPLE ARE SICK OF THIS IRRATIONAL VIOLENCE. ALL COLOMBIANS GET ANGRY EACH TIME A BARBARIC ACT TAKES PLACE AND EACH TIME ONE OF OUR LEADERS IS MURDERED. LET US TURN THIS ANGER INTO A PUBLIC CONDEMNATION OF THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THESE ACTIONS, IN A DECIDED ACTION BY ALL AGAINST THE EMPIRE OF CRIME, AND IN EFFECTIVE SOLIDARITY WITH GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS. RECOVERING PEACE AND TRANQUILLITY IS A JOINT TASK. EVERY DAY WE MUST DEMAND MORE EFFICIENCY FROM OUR PUBLIC FORCES BUT WE MUST ALSO GIVE THEM MORE SOLIDARITY AND SUPPORT SO THAT THEY CAN EFFICIENTLY COMPLY WITH THEIR SERIOUS RESPONSIBILITIES. THIS IS WHAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN DOING; IT HAS SUPPORTED THEM MORALLY AND MATERIALLY.</p><p>TO DEFEAT TERRORISM AND IMPUNITY DEPENDS ABOVE ALL ON THE COOPERATION OF CITIZENS. WE MUST ALL BECOME LIKE SOLDIERS IN THE SEARCH FOR PEACE BECAUSE THE FUTURE OF OUR FAMILIES, OUR PRINCIPLES, OUR RIGHTS, AND OUR DEMOCRACY ARE AT STAKE. LET THOSE WHO PROMOTE VIOLENCE FACE AN INVINCIBLE ARMY OF 30 MILLION HONEST COLOMBIANS. NO ONE SHOULD TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS PAINFUL MOMENT THE COUNTRY IS ENDURING. THE INTERESTS OF COLOMBIA ARE ABOVE ALL OTHER CONSIDERATIONS.</p><p>ON THE EVE OF THE ELECTIONS AND THE DECISION BY THE HONORABLE SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ASSEMBLY, AND AFTER A THOROUGH ANALYSIS OF THE MOST RECENT PUBLIC ORDER DISTURBANCES, I HAVE DEEMED IT APPROPRIATE TO SEND THE FOREIGN MINISTER TO REPRESENT COLOMBIA AT THE ANDEAN GROUP PRESIDENTIAL SUMMIT.</p><p>AS YOU ARE AWARE, THE ANDEAN GROUP PRESIDENTIAL SUMMIT WILL BEGIN TOMORROW IN CUZCO, PERU. THIS MEETING WAS CALLED WITH THE OBJECTIVE OF ACHIEVING NEW PROGRESS IN THE INTEGRATION OF THE SUBREGION, THROUGH NEW MECHANISMS FOR INTEGRATION AND WITH THE CREATION OF THE ANDEAN PRESIDENTIAL COUNCIL.</p><p>THE FOREIGN MINISTER WILL BE ENTRUSTED WITH REAFFIRMING COLOMBIA'S FULL COMMITMENT TO THE INTEGRATION PROCESS AND TO CONCERTED NEW JOINT ACTIONS WITH PERU, ECUADOR, BOLIVIA, AND VENEZUELA TO FACE THE PROBLEM OF THE CONSUMPTION, SMUGGLING, AND DRUG PRODUCTION.</p><p>FELLOW COUNTRYMEN: I HEREBY REITERATE MY DEEPEST CONDOLENCES TO ALL THOSE WHO HAVE BEEN AFFECTED BY VIOLENCE. IT IS AT THIS TIME OF SORROW AND SADNESS WHEN WE COLOMBIANS SHOULD BE MORE UNITED THAN EVER. I WANT TO INVITE YOU TO USE THE SUFFERING AND THE MEMORIES OF THOSE WHO HAVE FALLEN AS A FORCE THAT WILL GIVE US MORE COURAGE AND DETERMINATION TO CONTINUE TO PROGRESS IN BUILDING COLOMBIA IN PEACE, FREE OF TERRORISM AND VIOLENCE. GOOD NIGHT.</p></body></html>