<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0479"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0479"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0479</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0479 (UMASS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 14 SEP 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] COLOMBIAN SECRET POLICE SOURCES REPORTED THAT THE ALLEDGED DRUG TRAFFICKERS BERNARDO PELAEZ ROLDAN AND GUILLERMO BUENO DELGADO WERE ARRESTED TODAY. APPARENTLY, THE UNITED STATES HAS REQUESTED THAT THESE MEN BE EXTRADITED TO RESPOND TO CHARGES AGAINST THEM IN THAT COUNTRY.</p><p>IT WAS REPORTED THAT PELAEZ ROLDAN WAS ARRESTED IN BOGOTA AND IS CHARGED BY A COURT IN DETROIT OF CONSPIRACY TO DISTRIBUTE COCAINE IN THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>BUENO DELGADO WAS ARRESTED BY THE POLICE ON SAN ANDRES ISLAND IN THE CARIBBEAN AND WAS IMMEDIATELY TRANSFERRED TO BOGOTA AND HANDED OVER TO JUDICIAL AUTHORITIES.</p><p>ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY, DAS, SPOKESMEN SAID THAT REQUESTS FOR EXTRADITION OF THE SUSPECTED DRUG LORD HAVE BEEN RECEIVED FROM FLORIDA AND CALIFORNIA COURTS, WHERE HE HAS BEEN CHARGED WITH SMUGGLING AT LEAST 5,000 KG OF COCAINE INTO THE UNITED STATES AND LAUNDERING DOLLARS OBTAINED AS A RESULT OF THIS ILLEGAL ACTIVITY.</p><p>LAST WEEK, THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT EXTRADITED THE ALLEDGED "FINANCIAL HEAD" OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL TO THE UNITED STATES. HE IS EDUARDO MARTINEZ ROMERO AND HAS TO ANSWER CHARGES IN AN ATLANTA COURT OF "LAUNDERING" MORE THAN $1.2 BILLION THROUGH A PANAMANIAN BANK.</p><p>THE DRUG-TRAFFICKING MAFIAS HAVE THREATENED TO MURDER 10 JUDGES FOR EACH COLOMBIAN EXTRADITED TO ANOTHER COUNTRY, AND THIS THREAT HAS THE WHOLE COUNTRY TENSE AND ANXIOUS.</p><p>THERE ARE RUMORS CIRCULATING IN SEVERAL CITIES THAT NARCOCRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS ARE PREPARING AN OPERATION CALLED "BLACK SEPTEMBER" THAT WILL BE IMPLEMENTED NEXT WEEKEND BY POISONING WATER SUPPLIES AND ATTACKING COMMERCIAL CENTERS AND NIGHT CLUBS.</p></body></html>