<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0283"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0283"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0283</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0283 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 9 JUL 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] THE ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY ELN HAS PROMISED TO RELEASE NORWEGIAN ANTHROPOLOGIST BRUCE OLSON WITHIN THE NEXT FEW DAYS. THE ELN HAD KIDNAPPED AND SENTENCED OLSON TO DEATH. ELN MILITARY COMMANDER NICOLAS RODRIGUEZ ANNOUNCED THIS DECISION TO REPORTERS FROM THE SPANISH NEWS AGENCY EFE.</p><p>OLSON, A PHILOSOPHER AND ANTHROPOLOGIST, ARRIVED IN COLOMBIA 30 YEARS AGO AND WAS WORKING WITH THE MOTILONES INDIANS IN THE CATATUMBO JUNGLE AT THE TIME OF HIS CAPTURE. HE HAD BUILT 14 SCHOOLS AND SEVERAL HEALTH CENTERS IN THE AREA. HE HAD ALSO WRITTEN SEVERAL BOOKS ON THE MOTILO INDIAN LANGUAGE. THE ELN, HOWEVER, ACCUSED HIM OF BEING A CIA AGENT AND AN EXPLOITER OF THE INDIAN PEOPLE. THE ELN KIDNAPPED OLSON, DECLARED HIM A PRISONER OF WAR, AND SENTENCED HIM TO DEATH. HOWEVER, THIS NIGHTMARE IS NOW OVER. THE ELN HAS PROMISED TO TURN OLSON OVER SAFE AND SOUND TO THE RED CROSS IN THE NEXT FEW DAYS.</p><p>IN ADDITION, THE ELN SENT A LETTER TO PRESIDENT BARCO. PARLIAMENTARIANS GUILLERMO ALBERTO GONZALEZ AND ORLANDO GOMEZ WILL DELIVER THE LETTER TO THE PRESIDENT TOMORROW. IN THIS LETTER, THE ELN LISTS ITS DEMANDS, WHICH, IF MET, WOULD LEAD THEM TO HALT THE BLOWING UP OF OIL PIPELINES.</p><p>ACCORDING TO GONZALEZ, THE GUERRILLA GROUP DEMANDS THE DISMISSAL OF MINES MINISTER OSCAR MEJIA AND ECOPETROL [COLOMBIAN PETROLEUM ENTERPRISE] PRESIDENT ANDRES RESTREPO. THE ELN ALSO CONDITIONED THEIR SUSPENSION OF ATTACKS AGAINST THE PIPELINES ON THE CREATION OF A NATIONAL PETROLEUM COUNCIL AND A FORUM FOR A DEBATE TO REVIEW THE CURRENT OIL POLICY.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [GONZALEZ] MY IMPRESSION DURING MY 2 DAYS OF CAPTIVITY IS THAT THEY ATTACH GREAT IMPORTANCE TO A DEBATE ON THE NATION'S OIL POLICY. THEY DEMAND THAT THIS DEBATE BE CARRIED OUT THROUGH A COUNCIL MEETING, WHICH WOULD INCLUDE REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE GOVERNMENT, LABOR UNIONS -- PARTICULARLY THE (USO) AND ECOPETROL UNIONS -- AS WELL AS SEVERAL PROMINENT FIGURES WHOM THEY LISTED IN THE LETTER TO THE PRESIDENT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>GONZALEZ ADDED THAT HE AGREES WITH COMPTROLLER RODOLFO GONZALEZ THAT THE GOVERNMENT SHOULD TALK WITH THE ELN, A GUERRILLA GROUP WHICH IN THE PAST HAS BEEN THE MOST UNWILLING TO JOIN THE PEACE PROCESS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [GONZALEZ] IF THE DIALOGUE RESULTS IN A SOLUTION TO COLOMBIA'S PUBLIC UNREST, THEN WE MUST NOT AVOID THE DIALOGUE; WE MUST HOLD IT. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>