<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0333"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0333"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0333</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0333 (BBN)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 7 AUG 89 (RADIO AMERICA) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ORTEGA BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [TEXT] [REPORTER] WHAT IS THE PREVAILING ATMOSPHERE NOW?</p><p>[ORTEGA] I THINK THAT ALL OF THE PRESIDENTS ARE HOPING THAT AN AGREEMENT WILL BE REACHED. WE HAVE BEEN SERIOUSLY WORKING ON THAT AGREEMENT SO THAT A FINAL AGREEMENT CAN BE ISSUED. WE HAVE PREPARED DOCUMENTS ON WHICH, I WOULD SAY, THERE IS A CERTAIN CONSENSUS--SUCH AS ON THE DOCUMENT ON THE [WORD INDISTINCT] OF THE CONTRAS, THE DOCUMENT ON THE HONDURAN-NICARAGUAN AGREEMENT CONCERNING THE SUIT NICARAGUA HAS FILED BEFORE THE INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE, THE SALVADORAN ISSUE, AND OTHER POINTS.</p><p>I THINK THERE IS A POLITICAL RESOLVE ON THE PART OF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS TO MAKE SURE THAT SOMETHING POSITIVE EMERGES FROM THIS SUMMIT. I AM SURE THAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT IS HOPING THAT NOTHING WILL RESULT FROM THIS SUMMIT. I WOULD NOT BE SURPRISED IF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT IS CURRENTLY EXERTING STRONG PRESSURES SO THAT NOTHING WILL COME FROM THIS SUMMIT.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR PRESIDENT: WHAT ARE THE PROCEDURES FOR NICARAGUA'S WITHDRAWAL OF ITS SUIT AGAINST HONDURAS?</p><p>[ORTEGA] THIS HAS TO BE LINKED TO COMPLETE COMPLIANCE WITH THE PLAN FOR THE CONTRA WITHDRAWAL.</p><p>[REPORTER] IN OTHER WORDS, THE CONTRAS MUST FIRST LEAVE?</p><p>[ORTEGA] OF COURSE. THAT IS OUR INSURANCE.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR PRESIDENT, HAS HONDURAS AGREED TO THIS?</p><p>[ORTEGA] WE ARE EXCHANGING VIEWPOINTS ON THIS.</p><p>[REPORTER] THE SUIT REPRESENTS AN INSURANCE FOR YOU, COMMANDER? WHICH GROUPS HAS THE UNITED STATES BEEN PRESSURING?</p><p>[ORTEGA] THE CENTRAL AMERICAN GROUPS. THERE HAVE BEEN DIRECT AND INDIRECT CONTACTS. THE UNITED STATES HAS CONTACTED THE CENTRAL AMERICAN DELEGATIONS IN HOPES THAT NO AGREEMENT WILL BE REACHED. THE AMERICANS CONTINUE TO FAVOR THE PRESENCE OF THE CONTRAS. THE FACT THAT PRESIDENT BUSH MET WITH CONTRA LEADERS ON THE EVE OF THIS CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS SUMMIT IS A SLAP IN THE FACE TO THIS MEETING.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHEN YOU MENTION THESE PRESSURES, MR PRESIDENT, TO WHICH COUNTRIES ARE YOU REFERRING?</p><p>[ORTEGA] ALL OF THEM, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF NICARAGUA. I HAVE NO DOUBTS THAT RIGHT NOW THE UNITED STATES IS EXERTING PRESSURE, BECAUSE IT WANTS TO KILL THIS SUMMIT JUST WHEN WE ARE ABOUT TO REACH AN AGREEMENT. IF NO AGREEMENT IS REACHED AT THIS SUMMIT, THE UNITED STATES WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THAT. [WORDS INDISTINCT] BECAUSE WE CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES HAVE SUFFICIENT AUTHORITY AND SUFFICIENT SELF-DETERMINATION AND INDEPENDENCE TO DECIDE OUR OWN ACTIONS.</p><p>[REPORTER] AT THIS STAGE, HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE PRESIDENTS SUMMIT? IS THIS SUMMIT A FAILURE OR A SUCCESS?</p><p>[ORTEGA] I THINK IT HAS TO BE A SUCCESS, EVEN IF THE UNITED STATES HAS NOT GIVEN UP TRYING TO MAKE IT FAIL. THIS IS THE TIME, AND I AM SURE THAT IT IS TRYING [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p></body></html>