<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0285"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0285"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0285</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0285 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 9 JUL 89 (IZVESTIYA) -- [REPORT] [A. CHEREPANOV, MEXICO CITY CORRESPONDENT] [TEXT] AS IZVESTIYA HAS ALREADY REPORTED, ON 5 JULY AT 1000 HOURS LOCAL [PERU] TIME, A BUS WITH SOVIET SEAMEN ON BOARD WAS BLOWN UP BY A BOMB. AS A RESULT OF THE EXPLOSION 20 PEOPLE WERE INJURED, OF WHOM 17 WERE HOSPITALIZED, 3 OF THEM IN A SERIOUS CONDITION.</p><p>OUR MEXICO CITY CORRESPONDENT A. CHEREPANOV CALLED EMBASSY AND MINISTRY OF THE FISHING INDUSTRY REPRESENTATIVES IN LIMA. HERE ARE THE ADDITIONAL DETAILS HE MANAGED TO OBTAIN. ON THE MORNING OF 5 JULY A GROUP OF 52 PEOPLE IN TWO BUSES VISITED THE "ALBATROS" STORE, AS IS THE CUSTOM AMONG OFF-DUTY CREWS FROM SOVIET FISHING VESSELS WORKING IN PERUVIAN COASTAL WATERS. THE EXPLOSION OCCURRED ON ONE OF THE BUSES AS IT WAS ABOUT TO LEAVE.</p><p>FORTUNATELY, THE BOMB WAS HOMEMADE AND NOT THAT POWERFUL. AND IT HAD OBVIOUSLY BEEN HASTILY PLANTED (ACCORDING TO WITNESSES, FOUR SUSPICIOUS CHARACTERS HAD BEEN HANGING AROUND THE BUS). THE PASSENGERS WERE INJURED MAINLY BY PIECES OF BROKEN GLASS.</p><p>THE POLICE AND EMERGENCY SERVICES WERE ON THE SCENE IMMEDIATELY. NEARLY ALL THE CASUALTIES WERE IMMEDIATELY HOSPITALIZED. IT IS TRUE THAT AT FIRST THERE WAS A MIXUP IN THE HOSPITAL OVER RUSSIAN NAMES -- IT TOOK THE DOCTORS A WHILE TO WORK OUT WHICH PHOTOGRAPH BELONGED TO WHOM. REPRESENTATIVES OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY AND CONSULATE CAME TO THEIR AID. ON THE SAME DAY SKILLED OPERATIONS WERE CARRIED OUT ON ALL THOSE WHO REQUIRED THEM. THE IZVESTIYA CORRESPONDENT WAS OFFICIALLY INFORMED THAT THE SERIOUSLY INJURED SOVIET SEAMEN WERE OUT OF DANGER. THEIR FAMILIES HAD BEEN INFORMED.</p><p>THE PERUVIAN PRESS BELIEVES THAT THE TERRORIST ACT CARRIED OUT AGAINST SOVIET CITIZENS WAS THE WORK OF THE MAOIST-INCLINED LEFTIST ARMED GROUPING "SENDERO LUMINOSO." BUT THERE IS ANOTHER VERSION: IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN CARRIED OUT BY ULTRARIGHTISTS OPPOSING THE FISHING AGREEMENTS SIGNED BETWEEN PERU AND THE USSR.</p></body></html>