<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0349"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0349"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0349</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0349 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 18 AUG 89 (EFE) -- [EXCERPT] IT WAS OFFICIALLY REPORTED TODAY THAT 800 COLOMBIAN ARMY AND POLICE MEMBERS WERE TAKEN FROM BOGOTA ON BOARD FOUR PLANES TODAY AND DEPLOYED IN THE CITY OF MEDELLIN TO REINFORCE THE MEDELLIN AUTHORITIES.</p><p>A NATIONAL POLICE SOURCE TOLD EFE THAT THE 800 MEN "ARE PART OF A GROUP CHOSEN BY THE POLICE AND ARMY TO COUNTERATTACK CRIME IN MEDELLIN."</p><p>THE DEPLOYMENT WAS ORDERED BY THE POLICE AND ARMY HIGH COMMAND AS A RESULT OF THE MURDER OF ANTIOQUIA POLICE CHIEF COLONEL WALDEMAR FRANKLIN QUINTERO TODAY IN MEDELLIN, COLOMBIA'S SECOND LARGEST CITY.</p><p>ACCORDING TO EYE WITNESSES, QUINTERO WAS FIRED AT "INCESSANTLY" IN A DOWNTOWN MEDELLIN STREET AT 0600 LOCAL TIME (1100 GMT) AFTER HIS CAR WAS INTERCEPTED BY ANOTHER VEHICLE FROM WHICH VARIOUS UNIDENTIFIED MEN GOT OUT TO COMMIT THE CRIME.</p><p>COL FRANKLIN QUINTERO, CONSIDERED BY HIS SUPERIORS AS AN IMPLACABLE ENEMY OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS AND ORGANIZED CRIME, WAS KILLED IN THE ACTION.</p><p>THE COLOMBIAN DEPUTY POLICE DIRECTOR, GENERAL CARLOS ARTURO CASADIEGO, SAID: "IT IS NO SECRET THAT THE MEDELLIN MAFIA IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL THE CRIMES" TAKING PLACE IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>QUINTERO'S MURDER JOINS THAT OF MAGISTRATE CARLOS VALENCIA GARCIA. WHO WAS MURDERED IN BOGOTA ON 16 AUGUST. AT THE TIME OF HIS MURDER, VALENCIA WAS INVESTIGATING THE MEDELLIN CARTEL'S CHIEFS' LINKS.</p></body></html>