<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1055"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1055"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CARACAS (VENEZUELA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1055</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1055 (TRW)</p><p>CARACAS (VENEZUELA), 19 JAN 90 (TELEVEN CANAL 10) -- [INTERVIEW WITH PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA AND BOLIVIAN PRESIDENT JAIME PAZ ZAMORA BY MODERATOR NAPOLEON BRAVO AND TEODORO PETKOFF, LEADER OF THE VENEZUELAN MOVEMENT FOR SOCIALISM (MAS)] [TEXT] [BRAVO] WE ALREADY HAVE AUDIO AND VIDEO SIGNALS WITH LIMA AND LA PAZ. WE TALKED WITH PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA A FEW MINUTES AGO. GOOD MORNING AGAIN PRESIDENT GARCIA. GOOD MORNING PRESIDENT PAZ ZAMORA. CAN YOU HEAR ME?</p><p>[PAZ ZAMORA] YES, I CAN HEAR YOU. GOOD MORNING, NAPOLEON BRAVO. IT IS MY PLEASURE TO BE TALKING TO YOU TODAY.</p><p>[BRAVO] IT IS ALSO A PLEASURE FOR US. WE HAVE TEODORO PETKOFF, LEADER OF MAS HERE IN THE STUDIO. AS YOU, PRESIDENT GARCIA, AND TEODORO PETKOFF AGREED, THE TOPIC TO BE DISCUSSED HERE TODAY IS LATIN AMERICA'S FUTURE OVER THE NEXT 10 YEARS. YOU WILL DISCUSS THE INCREASING IMPOVERISHMENT OF THE CONTINENT, THE POPULATION EXPLOSION, AND ECONOMIC GROWTH.</p><p>THE FIRST QUESTION IS FOR PRESIDENT GARCIA. MR PRESIDENT, IN YOUR OPINION AND TAKING INTO ACCOUNT ALL THE PROBLEMS THAT LATIN AMERICA IS CURRENTLY EXPERIENCING, INCLUDING THE FOREIGN DEBT AND ECONOMIC STAGNATION, WHAT CAN LATIN AMERICA EXPECT OVER THE NEXT 10 YEARS?</p><p>[GARCIA] [WORDS INDISTINCT] SOCIALISM, I HAVE, HOWEVER, [WORD INDISTINCT] DIFFICULT REGARDING LATIN AMERICA'S FUTURE. WE CANNOT [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE FOREIGN DEBT [PASSAGE INDISTINCT] EXPLOITATION OF OUR COUNTRIES OVER THE PAST 10 YEARS. WE CANNOT FORGET THAT OVER THE PAST 10 YEARS, LATIN AMERICA HAS BEEN EXPORTING CAPITAL AND THAT [WORDS INDISTINCT] PAID $250 BILLION OVER THE PAST 10 YEARS [WORDS INDISTINCT], $430,000 AFTER THE BEGINNING OF THE DECADE [WORDS INDISTINCT] $190,000.</p><p>[WORDS INDISTINCT] POLITICAL AND MILITARY INTERVENTIONISM [WORDS INDISTINCT] WHICH THE CASE OF PANAMA CONFIRMS. [WORDS INDISTINCT] DEMOCRATIC OR TOTALITARIAN SOCIETIES [PASSAGE INDISTINCT] AND ALL ENDANGERS THE VERY EXISTENCE OF LATIN AMERICA INSOFAR AS THERE IS NOT A PROMPT AND VIGOROUS REACTION FROM ALL THE LATIN AMERICAN POLITICAL LEADERS TO STRENGTHEN OUR PEOPLES' UNITY. THAT UNITY WILL SERVE AS AN ANTI-IMPERIALIST INSTRUMENT OF DEFENSE AND AS AN INSTRUMENT FOR SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.</p><p>[WORDS INDISTINCT] FAVORABLE CONDITIONS FOR OUR CONTINENT OVER THE NEXT 10 YEARS. THAT IS THE ESSENTIAL PROTEST OF ALL THE LATIN AMERICAN MOVEMENTS THAT EMPHASIZE THE NEED FOR DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISM, RESPECT FOR LATIN AMERICAN FREEDOM, AND ESPECIALLY RESPECT FOR LATIN AMERICAN UNITY.</p><p>[BRAVO] THANK YOU MR PRESIDENT. PRESIDENT PAZ ZAMORA, I AM GOING TO ASK YOU THE SAME QUESTION. IN YOUR OPINION, AND TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THE INCREASING IMPOVERISHMENT IN LATIN AMERICA, POPULATION EXPLOSION, THE DRUG TRAFFICKING PROBLEM, THE CURRENT LATIN AMERICAN ECONOMIC GROWTH, AND THE FOREIGN DEBT PROBLEM, ABOUT WHICH IN FACT I THINK I HEARD -- AND I SAY I THINK, BECAUSE IT WAS TOO EARLY IN THE MORNING -- OVER THE ECO LATIN AMERICAN TELEVISION NETWORK THIS MORNING THAT YOU ARE SOLVING THE FOREIGN DEBT PROBLEM, WHAT IS LATIN AMERICA'S FUTURE FOR THE LAST DECADE OF THIS CENTURY?</p><p>[PAZ] MY FRIEND NAPOLEON BRAVO, I HAVE A FAIRLY OPTIMISTIC VIEWPOINT WITH REGARD TO LATIN AMERICA'S FUTURE FOR THIS LAST DECADE OF THE CENTURY. I BELIEVE WE MUST ADMIT THAT DESPITE ALL THE DIFFICULTIES, THE FOREIGN DEBT PROBLEM, THE MISERY THAT EXISTS ON OUR CONTINENT, THE POPULATION EXPLOSION, AND OTHER PROBLEMS, SINCE THE LATIN AMERICAN REPUBLICS WERE FORMED, OUR CONTINENT HAS NEVER BEEN BETTER THAN TODAY. IN OTHER WORDS, SINCE THE LATIN AMERICAN REPUBLICS WERE FORMED, WE HAVE NEVER HAD ALMOST 90 PERCENT OF THE CONTINENT LIVING WITHIN DEMOCRATIC SYSTEMS AS WE DO NOW. WE HAVE NEVER HAD THE PERSPECTIVES WE HAD TODAY. I AM OPTIMISTIC ABOUT THE FUTURE OF MY COUNTRY, OF LATIN AMERICA, AND ESPECIALLY OF OUR THREE COUNTRIES.</p><p>I AM SO OPTIMISTIC THAT I EVEN WANT TO POINT OUT SOMETHING THAT TOUCHES OUR SOULS. WE WILL BEGIN THE DECADE BY WINNING THE WORLD SOCCER CHAMPIONSHIP IN ITALY. WE MUST NOT UNDERESTIMATE SOCCER, BECAUSE SOCCER IS CULTURE, TOO, AND REPRESENTS OUR PEOPLES' STRENGTH.</p><p>TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THAT MINE IS AN OPTIMISTIC POINT OF VIEW, I WOULD LIKE TO TELL YOU THAT OVER THE NEXT 10 YEARS, LATIN AMERICA WILL FACE A NUMBER OF PROBLEMS. ONE OF THOSE PROBLEMS WILL BE TO FIND A WAY TO REJOIN AN ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL, AND COMMERCIAL WORLD FROM WHICH LATIN AMERICA WAS GRADUALLY EXPELLED DURING THE LAST DECADE AND EVEN DURING THE 1970'S. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>