<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1234"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1234"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1234</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1234 (BOEING)</p><p>BOGOTA, 26 APR 90 (EMISORAS CARACOL NETWORK) -- [REPORT] [JAIRO CORREA] [TEXT] THE CALLER IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AS ZAPATOCA -- THIS MUST BE AN ALIAS. HE SAID HE IS AN ACTIVE MEMBER OF THE EXTRADITABLES GROUP WITH HEADQUARTERS IN MEDELLIN. HE SAID THAT CARLOS PIZARRO LEONGOMEZ'S DEATH WAS A RESULT OF A COIN TOSS OVER CESAR GAVIRIA, RODRIGO LLOREDA CAICEDO, CARLOS PIZARRO, AND ALVARO GOMEZ. TODAY'S BAD LUCK FELL ON CARLOS PIZARRO LEONGOMEZ.</p><p>THE CALLER SAID THAT HE WAS ACTING UNDER THE ORDERS OF KIKI CASTANO AND HENRY PEREZ AND THAT THE TWO PEOPLE KILLED INSIDE THE PLANE WERE RECRUITED BY PIRINA, DON JAIRO TAZCON, THE HEAD OF THE MEDELLIN HIRED ASSASSINS. HE ADDED THAT THIS SERIES OF CRIMINAL ATTACKS WILL CONTINUE AS LONG AS THE GOVERNMENT DOES NOT GIVE THEM POLITICAL - MILITARY TREATMENT. HE SAID THAT THE EXTRADITABLES HAVE SET ASIDE THEIR STRUGGLE AGAINST EXTRADITION. THEY ARE NOW DEMANDING POLITICAL - MILITARY TREATMENT AND HAVE THREATENED TO CONTINUE WITH THIS TYPE OF ACTION. THEY WARN THAT THEY HAVE WHAT THEY HAVE CALLED AN IRANIAN-MADE Z-5 K, WHICH ACCORDING TO ZAPATOCA WILL BE USED FOR THE FIRST TIME IN BOGOTA WITHIN THE NEXT FEW DAYS.</p></body></html>