<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0063"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0063"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-02-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0063</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0063 (NOSC)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 6 FEB 89 -- [TEXT] THE PUBLIC SECURITY FORCES (FUSEP) HAVE DECLARED A STATE OF MAXIMUM ALERT THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY IN VIEW OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUBVERSIVE ATTACKS ON POLICE STATIONS, A SPOKESMAN FOR THAT INSTITUTION HAS REPORTED.</p><p>THE ALERT STATUS HAS BEEN IN EFFECT SINCE LAST THURSDAY, WHEN FUSEP STAFF COMMANDER COLONEL CRISTOBAL SIMON ROMERRO SENT NOTICE TO COMMANDERS AND REGIONAL AND SUBREGIONAL POSTS ALERTING THEM ABOUT THE DANGER OF LEFTIST ATTACKS.</p><p>A POLICE SPOKESMAN HAS SAID THE FUSEP HAS INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION ON LEFTIST PLANS TO ATTACK POLICE STATIONS.</p><p>THE SOURCE REPORTED THAT A STATE OF MAXIMUM ALERT WILL BE IN EFFECT UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE, ADDING THAT THE POLICE HAVE STRATEGIC PLANS TO RESPOND TO ANY ATTACKS.</p><p>THERE IS NO REPORT ON WHETHER OR NOT THE ARMY IS ALSO ON A STATE OF ALERT. YESTERDAY, PEOPLE WERE ABLE TO MOVE ABOUT AS USUAL IN SOUTHERN TEGUCIGALPA, WHERE SOME ARMY COMBAT UNITS ARE HEADQUARTERED.</p><p>THE POLICE DEPARTMENT DECLARED THE STATE OF ALERT AS A RESULT OF A WAVE OF VIOLENCE THAT BEGAN WITH THE KILLING OF THREE PEOPLE IN JANUARY.</p><p>NICARAGUAN CONTRA COMMANDER MANUEL ADAN RUGAMA, ALIAS AURELIANO, WAS SHOT TO DEATH IN NORTHERN TEGUCIGALPA ON 7 JANUARY, AND ATTORNEY CARLOS LORENZANA, WHO DEFENDED JUAN RAMON MATTA IN HONDURAS, WAS SHOT TO DEATH NEAR HIS RESIDENCE IN THE MODELO NEIGHBORHOOD BY UNIDENTIFIED ASSAILANTS. NONE OF THESE CRIMES HAS BEEN SOLVED BY THE POLICE.</p><p>ON 25 JANUARY, ALLEGED COMMANDOS OF THE "CINCHONERO" PEOPLE'S LIBERATION FRONT MACHINEGUNNED RETIRED GENERAL GUSTAVO ALVAREZ MARTINEZ, A FORMER ARMED FORCES COMMANDER. ALVAREZ MARTINEZ WAS KILLED NEAR HIS RESIDENCE IN TEGUCIGALPA'S FLORENCIA DEL ESTE NEIGHBORHOOD. THE FOLLOWING SUNDAY THE RESIDENCE OF THE NICARAGUAN AMBASSADOR IN THIS CAPITAL WAS ATTACKED.</p><p>THIS PAST WEDNESDAY UNIDENTIFIED PEOPLE FIRED ON A U.S. MILITARY CONVOY IN YORO DEPARTMENT. MILITARY SOURCES HAVE REPORTED THAT SPECIAL TROOPS ARE COMBING THE AREA.</p></body></html>