<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0061"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0061"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-02-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0061</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0061 (NOSC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 6 FEB 89 -- [REPORT] [MARCO ANTONIO GUEVARA] [TEXT] ON A NATIONAL RADIO AND TELEVISION NETWORK LAST NIGHT, THE GOVERNMENT REVEALED THE RESULTS OF A NUMBER OF INVESTIGATIONS ON THE MURDER OF MSGR ARNULFO ROMERO; HOWEVER, THE ATTORNEY GENERAL SAID AT NOON TODAY ONLY THE FOURTH CRIMINAL COURT JUDGE CAN DETERMINE WHETHER THE EVIDENCE AGAINST ANY PERSON IS LEGAL:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ATTORNEY GENERAL ROBERTO GARCIAL ALVARADO] SINCE I DO NOT KNOW THEIR CONTENT, I CANNOT GIVE AN OPINION ON THE MATTER. HOWEVER, IF FROM THOSE RECORDS OR THE VIDEO ONE CAN DETERMINE THERE IS SUFFICIENT EVIDENCE TO SOLVE THE CRIME COMMITTED AGAINST MSGR ROMERO, I WILL UNQUESTIONABLY REQUEST THAT EVIDENCE AND SUBMIT IT IMMEDIATELY TO THE FOURTH CRIMINAL COURT. I BELIEVE EVIDENCE SHOULD NOT BE USED TO SPECULATE OR SHOULD NOT BE PUBLICLY PROMOTED. IF PERTINENT EVIDENCE EXISTS, IT MUST BE SUBMITTED TO THE CORRESPONDING JUDGE, WHO IS THE EXCLUSIVE LEGAL AUTHORITY TO DEAL WITH IT AND, AFTER AN EXHAUSTIVE ANALYSIS, DETERMINE THE VALIDITY OF THE EVIDENCE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>NEVERTHELESS, MSGR ROMERO'S CASE HAS BEGUN TO HAVE THE ELEMENTS IT HAD LACKED FOR MORE THAN 8 YEARS. THE LEGAL EVIDENCE MUST CONTAIN A SERIES OF CONDITIONS, AND ONLY THE JUDGE CAN DETERMINE WHETHER THEY HAVE VALUE OR NOT.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ATTORNEY GENERAL ROBERTO GARCIAL ALVARADO] THE VIDEO FOR EXAMPLE IS NOT EVIDENCE. THE CONTENTS OF THE VIDEO MUST BE REAFFIRMED BY THE PERSONS WHO IN ONE WAY OR ANOTHER PARTICIPATED IN THE PREPARATION, AND THE ACCURACY OF THE CONTENTS NARRATED IN THAT VIDEO MUST BE LEGALLY DETERMINED. [END RECORDING]</p><p>GARCIA ALVARADO ADDED THAT THE FOURTH CRIMINAL COURT JUDGE DECIDED A FEW HOURS AGO TO SUMMON FORMER ATTORNEY ROBERTO GIRON FLORES AND THE OFFICIALS JULIO ALFREDO SAMAYOA AND GERARDO LE CHEVALIER TO GIVE THE EVIDENCE THEY CLAIM TO HAVE ON THE CASE. BECAUSE THEY ARE OFFICIALS, THE LATTER TWO MUST MAKE SWORN STATEMENTS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ATTORNEY GENERAL ROBERTO GARCIAL ALVARADO] THE JUDGE IN CHARGE OF THE CASE HAS ISSUED RESOLUTIONS ORDERING THE SUMMONS OF IVON FLORES AND SWORN STATEMENTS FROM THE TWO OFFICIALS MENTIONED. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THESE NEW RESOLUTIONS OF THE FOURTH CRIMINAL COURT JUDGE ON MSGR ROMERO'S CASE WERE ISSUED AT THE REQUEST OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, WHICH DEMONSTRATES, THE ATTORNEY GENERAL SAID, THAT HE IS NOT AN UNDERTAKER OF TRIALS, MUCH LESS OF PEOPLE.</p><p>VICE PRESIDENT ANTONIO CASTILLO CLARAMOUNT SAID THE SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE HAS THE MORAL OBLIGATION TO PUNISH THE MURDERERS OF MSGR ROMERO, INCLUDING MAJOR ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON. THE VICE PRESIDENT ALSO INSISTED THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY HAS A RESPONSIBILITY TO SEE THAT THOSE GUILTY OF THE MURDER OF MSGR ROMERO BE PUNISHED. HOWEVER, HE STRESSED THE SUPREME COURT MUST ACT. HE SAID THE INVESTIGATION MUST CONTINUE AND GATHER ALL THE EVIDENCE TO SOLVE THIS CASE, WHICH OCCURRED IN MARCH 1980.</p></body></html>