<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1072"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1072"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1072</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1072 (TRW)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 29 JAN 90 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] TODAY, 2 DAYS BEFORE HIS MEETING WITH UN SECRETARY GENERAL JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR, PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI REAFFIRMED HIS WILLINGNESS TO HOLD TALKS WITH THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN]. HOWEVER, CRISTIANI SAID, THE FLMN IS SENDING CONTRADICTORY SIGNALS ON ITS COMMITMENT TO PEACE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MARCO ANTONIO GUEVARA, CORRESPONDENT] A FEW HOURS BEFORE DEPARTING ON HIS TRIP TO WASHINGTON TODAY, THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC REITERATED HIS WILLINGNESS TO RESUME A DIALOGUE WITH THE FMLN, WHICH, HE SAID, IS ONE OF THE REASONS FOR HIS VISIT TO THE UN SECRETARY GENERAL.</p><p>[CRISTIANI] THE MAIN GOAL IS TO HOLD A WORK SESSION WITH THE UN SECRETARY GENERAL. THIS WILL BE ON 31 JANUARY. THE GOAL IS TO SEARCH FOR AND COME UP WITH ANY MECHANISMS THAT COULD EASE THE RESUMPTION OF THE DIALOGUE PROCESS, SO ALL VIOLENT ACTIONS CEASE AND SO WE CAN SEARCH FOR AN AGREEMENT FOR THE REINCORPORATION OF THE FMLN THROUGH POLITICAL MEANS. THEN WE WILL HOLD A MEETING WITH PRESIDENT BUSH ON 1 FEBRUARY IN WASHINGTON. WE WILL ALSO VISIT OTHER GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.</p><p>[GUEVARA] THE SALVADORAN PRESIDENT, WHO JUST RETURNED FROM HONDURAS WHERE HE MET U.S. VICE PRESIDENT DAN QUAYLE AND OTHER LATIN AMERICAN PRESIDENTS, TOLD NEWSMEN TODAY THAT HE HAS RECEIVED OFFERS FROM THE VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT TO CONTINUE THE DIALOGUE IN VENEZUELA.</p><p>[CRISTIANI] WE ARE DETERMINED TO SEARCH FOR A SOLUTION TO THE CONFLICT THROUGH DIALOGUE. THIS IS BASICALLY WHAT WE WILL DISCUSS WITH UN SECRETARY GENERAL PEREZ DE CUELLAR -- SEARCHING FOR ELEMENTS THAT WOULD MAKE THIS POSSIBLE. REGARDING THE FMLN, WE SEE SOME CONTRADICTORY INDICATIONS AT THIS TIME. IN SOME COMMUNIQUES, THE FMLN IS SOMEHOW EXPRESSING THE DESIRE TO RETURN TO THE DIALOGUE PROCESS, BUT, ON THE OTHER HAND, THERE ARE REPORTS THAT THE FMLN CONTINUES TRYING TO PLAN SOME ATTACKS ON SAN SALVADOR, IN ADDITION TO OTHER TERRORIST ACTIONS AIMED AT THE ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE. WE BELIEVE THIS IS CONTRADICTORY. HOWEVER, I MYSELF BELIEVE THERE ARE SOME POSITIVE ELEMENTS THAT WILL PERMIT RESUMING A DIALOGUE PROCESS THAT COULD BRING SOME BENEFITS.</p><p>[GUEVARA] ASKED ABOUT REPORTS BY THE SAN SALVADOR AUXILIARY BISHOP REGARDING SEARCHES AT SOME CATHOLIC CHURCH OFFICES, CRISTIANI SAID THIS SHOULD NOT BE SOMETHING TO WORRY ABOUT, BECAUSE THIS HAS BEEN FOR SECURITY REASONS.</p><p>[CRISTIANI] AS PART OF THE THINGS TAKING PLACE IN THE COUNTRY AT THIS TIME, IT IS POSSIBLE THAT SOME REPORTS HAVE BEEN TOTALLY WRONG. HOWEVER, I DO NOT BELIEVE THIS SHOULD BE TAKEN AT ALL AS A SIGN OF SOMETHING TO WORRY ABOUT. THESE ACTIONS HAVE BEEN FOR SECURITY REASONS, BASED ON REPORTS WE HAVE RECEIVED. THEREFORE, WE MUST TAKE ACTION, AND IF THERE IS NOTHING...[CHANGES THOUGHT]. THOSE WHO HAVE NO PROBLEM AND HAVE NOT BEEN INVOLVED IN ILLEGAL MATTERS SHOULD HAVE NOTHING TO FEAR.</p><p>[GUEVARA] THE SALVADORAN PRESIDENT SAID HE IS PLEASED WITH THE STATEMENTS BY NEW HONDURAN PRESIDENT RAFAEL CALLEJAS, WHO EXPRESSED HIS TOTAL SUPPORT FOR THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PEACE PLAN. CONCERNING AN UPCOMING CENTRAL AMERICAN SUMMIT, THE PRESIDENT SAID THAT NO DATE HAS BEEN SET YET AND HE BELIEVES THIS CANNOT BE DONE BEFORE THE NICARAGUAN ELECTIONS. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>