<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0117"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0117"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-05-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTA FE (ARGENTINA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0117</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0117 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SANTA FE (ARGENTINA), 4 MAY 88 (NA) -- [EXCERPT] TWO MEDIUM-SIZED BOMBS EXPLODED EARLY THIS MORNING AT THE HOUSE OF JUDGE GUILLERMO TORRE ALDAY AND AT THE OFFICES OF LAWYER LUIS ROSSMAN, A FORMER DIRECTOR OF THE SANTA FE PROVINCIAL BANK. THE EXPLOSIONS CAUSED SOME DAMAGE, BUT NO CASUALTIES.</p><p>JUDGE RAMIRO PUYOL IS CARRYING OUT THE INVESTIGATION INTO THE TWO CASES, BUT SO FAR THERE HAVE BEEN NO POSITIVE RESULTS.</p><p>THE TWO BOMBS EXPLODED ONLY MINUTES APART AND CAUSED MINOR DAMAGE TO THE WALLS OF THE TWO PREMISES. THERE WERE NO CASUALTIES.</p><p>ACCORDING TO SEVERAL MEMBERS OF THE BOMB SQUAD OF THE LOCAL POLICE, THE TWO BOMBS WERE PLANTED WITH THE EXCLUSIVE PURPOSE OF INTIMIDATING THE OWNERS OF THE PREMISES.</p><p>THIS AFTERNOON SOURCES CLOSE TO THE INVESTIGATION ANNOUNCED THAT BOTH ATTACKS HAD THE INTENTION OF "FRIGHTENING" TORRE ALDAY AND ROSSMAN, WHO WAS DIRECTOR OF THE PROVINCIAL BANK OF SANTA FE DURING GOVERNOR JOSE VERNET'S TENURE.</p><p>IT HAS BEEN LEARNED THAT BOTH TORRE ALDAY AND ROSSMAN ARE LINKED TO THE BANKRUPTCY CASES OF SOME LOCAL ENTERPRISES. THEREFORE, IT IS THOUGHT THAT THE ATTACKS HAD THE INTENTION OF INTIMIDATING BOTH MEN.</p><p>JUDGE PUYOL IMMEDIATELY BEGAN HIS INVESTIGATION INTO THE TWO CASES, WHICH, ACCORDING TO SOME MEMBERS OF THE BOMB SQUAD, "DO NOT HAVE ANY POLITICAL IMPLICATIONS." [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p></body></html>