<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0886"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0886"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0886</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0886 (GTE)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 27 NOV 89 (RADIO SANDINO) -- [SPEECH] [NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ORTEGA, IN PROGRESS] [TEXT] EL SALVADOR HAS CARRIED OUT A CONSTANT AND PERMANENT AGGRESSION AGAINST NICARAGUA AND NICARAGUA HAS NEVER SUGGESTED BREAKING RELATIONS WITH EL SALVADOR. NICARAGUA HAS NOT EVEN THOUGHT ABOUT BREAKING RELATIONS WITH HONDURAS. ON THE CONTRARY, WE HAVE ALWAYS TRIED TO FOLLOW A POLICY OF NEGOTIATIONS TO SOLVE PROBLEMS. I DO NOT BELIEVE IN FOOLING OURSELVES. THE REAL PROBLEM HERE IS THAT THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS MADE A COMMITMENT, AND THAT COMMITMENT MUST BE FULFILLED. THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS MADE A COMMITMENT TO MOBILIZE THE CONTRAS; THAT COMMITMENT MUST BE FULFILLED. THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS ALSO COMMITTED THEMSELVES TO RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS IN CENTRAL AMERICA, AND THAT COMMITMENT MUST ALSO BE FULFILLED. EL SALVADOR MUST FULFILL THAT COMMITMENT. THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT IS NOT RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS IN EL SALVADOR, THEY ARE KILLING PEOPLE IN EL SALVADOR, THEY HAVE BOMBED THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND THEY HAVE KILLED THE JESUIT PRIESTS.</p><p>IN LIGHT OF ALL THIS, THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT MUST EXPRESS ITS SOLIDARITY WITH THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE; THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ARE THE ONES WHO ARE SUFFERING. WE CANNOT BE IN SOLIDARITY WITH AN ARMY THAT IS KILLING THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. LET US WAIT AND SEE HOW MANY GOVERNMENTS WILL SUPPORT THAT ARMY WHICH IS KILLING THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, AN ARMY THAT IS BOMBING THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, AN ARMY THAT HAS KILLED THE JESUIT PRIESTS. LET US WAIT AND SEE HOW MANY GOVERNMENTS WILL SUPPORT THE ARMY. I ASSURE YOU THAT MOST OF THE PEOPLES OF THE WORLD, ALL THE PEOPLES OF THE WORLD WILL EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT FOR THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>SHORTLY BEFORE COMING HERE THIS EVENING, I WAS WATCHING THE NEWS VIA SATELLITE, AND I SAW PROTEST DEMOSTRATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES. THE PEOPLE ARE PROTESTING THE KILLING OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS AND THE BOMBINGS IN EL SALVADOR. CHRISTIANS, CATHOLICS, CLERGYMEN, AND PRIESTS ARE PROTESTING IN THE UNITED STATES [WORDS INDISTINCT]. THEREFORE, OUR POSITION IS QUITE CLEAR. WE DO NOT RENOUNCE THE PEACE AGREEMENTS. WE CONTINUE TO DEFEND THEM, AND WE WILL DEMAND THAT THE AGREEMENTS BE FULFILLED. WE ARE GOING TO DEMAND THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT RESPECT THOSE AGREEMENTS AND RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS. WHAT IS NEEDED IN EL SALVADOR IS A CEASE-FIRE. A REAL CEASE-FIRE AND NEGOTIATIONS ARE NEEDED IN EL SALVADOR TO REACH AN AGREEMENT THAT WILL ALLOW PEACE AND DEMOCRACY IN EL SALVADOR. NO ONE CAN BE HAPPY WITH THAT KIND OF A DEMOCRATIC REGIME -- LIKE THE U.S. GOVERNMENT AND THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT DESCRIBE IT. THAT GOVERNMENT IS KNOWN FOR KILLING PEOPLE, FOR KILLING CLERGYMEN. HUMAN RIGHTS MUST BE RESPECTED IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>I AM GRATEFUL TO ALL THE COMRADES WHO CAME FROM THE VARIOUS REGIONS TO BE HERE TONIGHT TO ATTEND THIS MEETING DURING WHICH, IN ADDITION TO DISCUSSING SEVERAL MATTERS OF INTEREST FOR ALL THE NICARAGUAN PEOPLE, WE ALSO HONORED OUR EVANGELISTIC BROTHERS WHO HAVE WORKED HERE IN NICARAGUA FOR THE PAST 7 YEARS AND GAVE POSTHUMOUS RECOGNITION TO OUR JESUIT BROTHERS, THE PRIESTS BRUTALLY MURDERED IN EL SALVADOR. [WORDS INDISTINCT] WE ARE DETERMINED TO CONTINUE WORKING WITH THE CHRISTIAN PEOPLE, THE PREACHERS OF THE GOSPEL, THE EVANGELISTS AND ALL THE CHURCHES IN OUR COUNTRY, FOR A NICARAGUA IN PEACE AND DEMOCRACY. ONCE AGAIN I WISH TO REITERATE: BETWEEN CHRISTIANITY AND REVOLUTION, THERE IS NO CONTRADICTION.</p></body></html>