<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1252"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1252"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1252</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1252 (BOEING)</p><p>NO CITY, NO DATE (FBIS) -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE ARMY, SEINELDIN BELIEVES, IS DIVIDED INTO ''NATIONALIST'' AND ''ADMINISTRATIVE'' FACTIONS, AND WARNS HE ''CAN'T PREDICT WHAT WILL HAPPEN WHEN THEY CLASH.'' IF A SOLUTION IS NOT FOUND SOON, ''LIBERALISM OR THE LEFT IS GOING TO MAKE HEADWAY AND ENCIRCLE US, AND THAT IS WHY WE HAVE TO ORGANIZE OURSELVES TO DEFEND THE INSTITUTIONS,'' SOMOS OF 14 FEBRUARY REPORTS.</p><p>THE PRESS ALSO REPORTS SEINELDIN'S COMMENTS REGARDING THE UNITED STATES. DURING HIS VISIT TO MENDOZA, FOR INSTANCE, HE ADVOCATED A ''CIVILIAN-MILITARY ALLIANCE TO DEFEAT THE TWO IMPERIALISMS, REPRESENTED BY THE UNITED STATES AND THE SOVIET UNION,'' ACCORDING TO LA NACION OF 21 MARCH. SOMOS OF 14 FEBRUARY QUOTES SEINELDIN AS STATING THAT ''THE WORLD IS DIVIDED, AND WHAT WAS THE THIRD WORLD HAS BEEN INFILTRATED BY IMPERIALISM AND COMMUNISM. WE HAVE ALREADY SEEN HOW THE UNITED STATES BLOCKADED VENEZUELA AND IS NOW TRYING TO DO THE SAME WITH MEXICO, WHERE IT HAS INSTALLED A SINGLE PARTY. DRUG TRAFFICKING WILL BE GIVEN AS AN EXCUSE FOR INVADING IT.''</p><p>LEVEL OF POPULAR SUPPORT</p><p>LA PRENSA OF 13 MARCH ANALYZES A SURVEY ON SEINELDIN'S POPULARITY CONDUCTED BY THE DEMOSKOPIA INSTITUTE FOR MARKET RESEARCH AND POLITICAL STUDIES. ACCORDING TO THE STUDY, ''SEINELDIN IS BETTER KNOWN THAN MANY POLITICIANS'' AND CABINET MEMBERS, SINCE 91 PERCENT OF THE POPULATION KNOWS OR HAS HEARD ABOUT HIM. THE SURVEY SHOWS 20 PERCENT OF THE POPULATION APPROVES OF HIM, 40 PERCENT DISAPPROVES, WHILE 21 PERCENT IS UNDECIDED. THE DEMOSKOPIA STUDY ALSO POINTS OUT THAT, ALTHOUGH SEINELDIN MAY HAVE ''HALF OF PUBLIC OPINION AGAINST HIM,'' THERE IS ''A LARGE PERCENTAGE THAT DOES NOT YET HAVE A DEFINITE OPINION,'' AND THAT ''DEPENDING ON SEINELDIN'S POLITICAL SKILL AND ON HOW MUCH THE COUNTRY'S SITUATION CONTINUES TO DETERIORATE,' HE COULD INCREASE HIS FOLLOWING, PARTICULARLY FROM AMONG THE UNDECIDED.</p><p>ACCORDING TO AN OPINION POLL CONDUCTED IN LATE FEBRUARY BY THE UNION STUDY CENTER FOR THE NEW MAJORITY AND REPORTED IN LA NACION OF 23 MARCH, SEINELDIN IS SEEN IN A MORE POSITIVE LIGHT OUTSIDE THE CAPITAL AND GREATER BUENOS AIRES, AMONG PEOPLE WITH LOWER LEVELS OF EDUCATION, AND AMONG SUPPORTERS OF THE RULING JUSTICIALIST PARTY. MORE SPECIFIALLY:.</p><p>GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION--IN THE CITY OF BUENOS AIRES, SEINELDIN RECEIVED 14 PERCENT FAVORABLE AND 40 PERCENT NEGATIVE RATINGS; IN GREATER BUENOS AIRES, 26 AND 32 PERCENT, RESPECTIVELY; AND IN THE NORTHWEST REGIONS OF THE COUNTRY, 41 PERCENT FAVORABLE VERSUS 30 PERCENT UNFAVORABLE.</p><p>LEVEL OF EDUCATION--IN THE CAPITAL AND GREATER BUENOS AIRES, SEINELDIN HAS A 19 PERCENT APPROVAL RATING AMONG THOSE WHO COMPLETED ELEMENTARY SCHOOL, 14 PERCENT AMONG THOSE WHO COMPLETED SECONDARY SCHOOL, AND 10 PERCENT AMONG THOSE WITH COLLEGE DEGREES.</p><p>POLITICAL AFFILIATION--SURVEY PARTICIPANTS WHO VOTED FOR THE RADICAL PARTY DURING THE LAST NATIONAL ELECTIONS GIVE SEINELDIN A 7 PERCENT APPROVAL RATING, THOSE WHO VOTED FOR THE UNITED LEFT GIVE HIM 8 PERCENT, AND AMONG THOSE WHO VOTED FOR THE MENEM-DUHALDE TICKET HIS APPROVAL RATE IS 25 PERCENT.</p><p>MILITARY CONCERNS</p><p>MILITARY PERSONNEL ARE CONCERNED ABOUT LOW SALARIES AND THE SHARP DECREASE IN PURCHASING POWER, ACCORDING TO AN 11 MARCH ARTICLE IN LA PRENSA. THEIR DISSATISFACTION, WHICH WAS PUBLICIZED IN A FLIER WHICH APPEARED IN SEVERAL PROVINCIAL GARRISONS, WAS DISCUSSED DURING SEINELDIN'S MEETING WITH COMMISSIONED AND NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICERS IN SANTA FE, ACCORDING TO SOMOS OF 14 FEBRUARY.</p><p>THE POSSIBILITY OF A SOCIAL EXPLOSION AND THE RELUCTANCE OF THE ''CARAPINTADAS'' TO INTERVENE WERE DISCUSSED DURING SEINELDIN'S MEETINGS IN ROSARIO, ACCORDING TO THE 14 FEBRUARY ISSUE OF SOMOS. ''WE CANNOT ENGAGE IN REPRESSION, AND THAT COULD CAUSE A LOT OF PROBLEMS FOR THE SECURITY FORCES,'' AN ''AUTHORIZED SPOKEMAN'' REPORTEDLY CONFIDED. IF THE ECONOMY DETERIORATES AND SOCIAL UNREST ENSUES, ''UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCE WILL THE ARMED FORCES BE INCLINED TO TAKE THE PLACE OF THE POLICE FORCES IN GUARDING SUPERMARKETS OR ANY PLACE NOT CLEARLY IDENTIFIED AS 'VITAL TO THE NATION,'' ACCORDING TO THE 11 MARCH ISSUE OF LA PRENSA.</p></body></html>