<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0815"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0815"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0815</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0815 (PRC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [INTERVIEW WITH FMLN'S ROBERTO ROCA BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [ROCA] THE GUERRILLA OFFENSIVE HAS NOT BEEN DEFEATED AND CANNOT BE DEFEATED. INTERNATIONAL REPORTS INDICATE THAT THE REVOLUTIONARY FORCES HAVE BECOME STRONG IN THE CITY, THAT THEY ARE MAKING TACTICAL MOVEMENTS, AND THAT IN SPITE OF THE BARBARISM WITH WHICH THE ARMED FORCES HAS BEEN OPERATING, THE GUERRILLAS MAINTAIN ALL OF THEIR OPERATIONAL CAPABILITIES.</p><p>THE SITUATION CANNOT DEFEAT US. THERE MUST BE A SOLUTION, AND THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ARE INCREASINGLY, AND IN DIFFERENT WAYS, BECOMING INVOLVED IN THE REVOLUTIONARY PROCESS TO DEFEAT THE FASCISTS AND THE GENOCIDAL TACTICS THEY ARE USING.</p><p>WE BELIEVE THAT WHAT IS HAPPENING IS HAVING AN IMPACT ON INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC OPINION, AND THIS UNDOUBTEDLY WILL HAVE AN EFFECT ON THE ARMED FORCES AND COULD RESULT IN AN EFFORT TO SAVE THE INSTITUTION.</p><p>WE BELIEVE THAT IN THE ARMED FORCES THERE ARE OFFICERS AND SOLDIERS WHO REJECT FASCISM. THERE HAVE BEEN MANY DESERTIONS IN THE ARMY FILES. MANY ORDERS ARE BEING DISOBEYED, ORDERS OF A GENOCIDAL NATURE USUALLY. THIS IS THE STARTING POINT OF AN EVENT THAT WILL STUN POLITICAL OPINION IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>WE BELIEVE THAT IF THIS SAVAGE KILLING OF PEOPLE DOES NOT STOP, THE MILITARY INSTITUTION WILL BE SIGNING ITS OWN DEATH SENTENCE. THE PEOPLE CANNOT TOLERATE A MILITARY THAT FUNCTIONS UNDER A MOST SAVAGE AND DESPOTIC REGIME, AND THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT IS IN HOT WATER, WE COULD SAY.</p><p>THE REVOLUTIONARY OFFENSIVE, AS I HAVE NOTED, IS BEING DEVELOPED. WE HAVE SOLID POSITIONS IN FOUR OF EL SALVADOR'S MAIN CITIES, AND AS WE HAVE SAID BEFORE: NO ONE IS GOING TO PUSH US OUT. VICTORY FOR DEMOCRACY HAS BEEN ASSURED. THE WORLD WILL BACK US IN THE FACE OF THE SAVAGE GENOCIDE BY THE GOVERNMENT FORCES, ESPECIALLY BY THE FASCIST MILITARY ELEMENTS IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>[REPORTER] TO CONCLUDE, COMMANDER, THE FUNERAL RITES FOR THE THE PRIESTS WHO WERE MURDERED IN SAN SALVADOR ARE TAKING PLACE AT THIS MOMENT, AROUND NOON TIME, AND ALFREDO CRISTIANI AND HIS WIFE ARE ATTENDING THIS CEREMONY. DO YOU HAVE ANY MESSAGE FOR THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, FOR THE STUDENTS FROM THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY, FOR THE CHRISTIAN PEOPLE, FOR THE PEOPLE IN GENERAL, WHO ARE MOURNING THE DEATH OF THESE WORTHY JESUITS?</p><p>[ROCA] WE HAVE ALREADY EXPRESSED, AND I WILL REITERATE IT NOW, THE DEEP SORROW OF THE FMLN MILITANTS AND THE PEOPLE IN GENERAL OVER THE LOSS OF THESE WORTHY JESUIT PRIESTS WHO HAVE BEEN CONSISTENT STRUGGLERS FOR DEMOCRACY AND PEACE IN EL SALVADOR. WE SHARE THE FEELINGS OF THE SALVADORAN RELIGIOUS COMMUNITY.</p><p>I WOULD LIKE TO NOTE THAT THE PRESENCE OF CRISTIANI AT THE BURIAL FOR THE JESUIT PRIESTS CALLS FOR A NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL OUTCRY IN DEMAND FOR PUNISHMENT FOR THE PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS ATROCIOUS ASSASSINATION.</p><p>CRISTIANI CANNOT GO TO THAT BURIAL AND DO NOTHING ABOUT PEOPLE TO WHOM HE OPENED DOORS SO THAT THEY COULD COMMIT THESE KILLINGS. EVERYBODY MUST DEMAND THAT CRISTIANI RESPOND TO THE PEOPLE'S INDIGNATION BY PUNISHING THE PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CRIME. CRISTIANI CANNOT SPEAK ABOUT HAVING MORAL AUTHORITY FOR ATTENDING THAT BURIAL UNLESS HE PUNISHES THE PEOPLE WHO ARE RESPONSIBLE. IT IS NOT ENOUGH TO PUNISH THE ASSASSINS. THERE MUST BE A THOROUGH INVESTIGATION OF THE WAVE OF CRIME THAT HAS BEEN UNLEASHED IN EL SALVADOR. THE MOST NOTORIOUS CRIME HAS BEEN THE KILLING OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS, BUT IN THE PAST 8 DAYS MANY COMMON PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY LEADERS HAVE ALSO BEEN MURDERED. THE BOMBING HAS BEEN INTENSE. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ARE ENDURING MUCH PAIN AND THEY DEMAND THAT THE PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE FOR IT BE PUNISHED.</p><p>WE AGAIN REITERATE THE PAIN OF THE PEOPLE OVER THE DEATH OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS. WE BELIEVE THAT THE CATHOLIC CHURCH MUST BRAVELY AND LOUDLY DEMAND JUSTICE IN THE FACE OF THESE CRIMES.</p></body></html>