<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0291"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0291"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0291</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0291 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 13 JUL 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] TEN PEOPLE WERE KILLED IN COLOMBIA DURING A THWARTED ATTACK AGAINST PATIOTIC UNION COUNCILMAN GONZALO ALVAREZ HENAO IN MEDELLIN. THE ATTACK TOOK PLACE IN THE EL PEDREGAL NEIGHBORHOOD, BELLO MUNICIPALITY, IN THE NORTHERN PART OF ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT'S CAPITAL CITY. AUTHORITIES REPORT THAT ALL THOSE KILLED BELONGED TO A GROUP OF HIRED ASSASSINS. TWO POLICEMEN WERE AMONG THOSE KILLED. OUR REPORTER LAYS VARGAS HAS THIS REPORT:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [VARGAS] THE ASSAILANTS ARRIVED AT THE COUNCILMAN'S HOME IN SEVERAL VEHICLES. THEY OPENED FIRE ON THE HOUSE. GONZALO ALVAREZ' BODYGUARDS REPELLED THE ASSAILANTS AND THE COUNCILMAN ESCAPED UNHARMED. A POLICE PATROL IN THE AREA HEARD THE SHOOTOUT AND HELPED SEARCH FOR THE ASSAILANTS. THE SEARCH WAS CONDUCTED IN THE AREA BETWEEN THE EL PEDREGAL AND LA CABANA NEIGHBORHOODS IN THE AREA BETWEEN MEDELLIN AND BELLO.</p><p>THE PAID ASSASSINS CLASHED WITH AUTHORITIES FOR ALMOST 3 HOURS IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE NORTHWESTERN COMMUNITY. SOME OF THE ASSAILANTS SOUGHT REFUGE IN A LA CABANA NEIGHBORHOOD HOME. THE POLICE ARRIVED AT THE HOME AND A LONG SHOOT-OUT ENSUED, RESULTING IN THE DEATHS OF THE PAID ASSASSINS. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>