<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0050"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0050"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-01-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0050</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0050 (NOSC)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 24 JAN 89 -- [TEXT] THE CHILEAN FOREIGN MINISTRY HAS CATEGORICALLY REJECTED THE U.S. DECISION TO CITE A TREATY SIGNED WITH CHILE IN 1914, TO TURN THE MURDER CASE OF FORMER CHILEAN FOREIGN MINISTER ORLANDO LETELIER OVER TO AN INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF JURISTS.</p><p>THIS STATEMENT WAS MADE BY FOREIGN MINISTER HERNAN FELIPE ERRAZURIZ, WHO ADDED THAT THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT IS HANDLING THE SITUATION IN A SERIOUS AND PROFESSIONAL MANNER.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ERRAZURIZ] YES, ON 12 JANUARY WE RECEIVED A DIPLOMATIC NOTE WHICH WE ARE NOW STUDYING. WE CATEGORICALLY REJECT THE IMPLICIT PRESSURE ON SOMETHING WE ARE HANDLING IN A SERIOUS AND PROFESSIONAL MANNER. WE HAVE GRANTED ALL POSSIBLE COOPERATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH OUR RIGHTS AND INTERNATIONAL LAW. [END RECORDING]</p><p>IN VIEW OF THIS SITUATION, THE FOREIGN MINISTRY ISSUED AN OFFICIAL STATEMENT WHICH SAYS THAT THE 1914 TREATY IS BEING STUDIED TO SEE WHETHER OR NOT IT IS APPLICABLE.</p><p>THE STATEMENT ADDS THAT THE TERMS USED BY THE U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESMAN LAST MONDAY IN REFERRING TO THIS MATTER REPRESENT A DISTORTED AND PARTIAL VIEW, REFLECTING THE DESIRE TO IMPOSE A POSITION DISREGARDING INTERNATIONAL LAW AND THE DOMESTIC LAWS OF OTHER COUNTRIES.</p><p>THE FOREIGN MINISTRY STATEMENT CONCLUDES BY SAYING THAT THE CHILEAN COURTS ARE PROCESSING A ROGATORY LETTER SUBMITTED THROUGH NORMAL DIPLOMATIC CHANNELS, HAVING TO DO WITH THE PROCEEDINGS BEING CARRIED OUT IN THE UNITED STATES ON THIS CRIMINAL CASE.</p></body></html>