<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0251"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0251"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0251</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0251 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 16 JUN 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [INTERVIEW WITH SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY RENE HURTADO] [TEXT] HURTADO PRESIDENT CRISTIANI THIS MORNING DELIVERED PART OF THE COFFEE TAX, WHICH WILL BE DISTRIBUTED AMONG ALL THE MAYORS' OFFICES IN THE COUNTRY. AFTER THE EVENT AT A SAN SALVADOR HOTEL, CRISTIANI ANSWERED QUESTIONS, FIRST ON THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] COMMUNIQUE DENYING PARTICIPATION IN THE MURDER OF PRESIDENCY MINISTER JOSE ANTONIO RODRIGUEZ PORTH. IN THE COMMUNIQUE, THE FMLN FLATLY DECLARED THAT NONE OF THEIR MEMBERS HAD HAD ANYTHING TO DO WITH THE MURDER. CRISTIANI HAD THIS TO SAY:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CRISTIANI] THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND SAID THEY HAD NOT ORDERED THE ASSASSINATION AND ADDED THAT APPARENTLY A GROUP GOT OUT OF HAND AND PERPETRATED THE CRIME. I THINK THE FMLN HAS REALIZED THE GENERAL REPUDIATION THIS ACTION HAS ELICITED. I AM CONVINCED THE FMLN IS TRYING TO EXCUSE THE ACTION, THUS AVOIDING ALL RESPONSIBILITY. WE THINK THEY ARE TRYING TO SEEK A WAY OUT OF THE PROBLEM CAUSED BY THE ASSASSINATION OF AN AGED, DEFENSELESS PERSON. BUT THERE IS NO WAY OUT FOR THEM NOW.</p><p>[HURTADO] THE FMLN HAS DENIED THAT ANY OF ITS MEMBERS PARTICIPATED IN THE ACTION.</p><p>[CRISTIANI] OF COURSE, THEY ARE NOW TRYING TO DENY IT AFTER THEY LEARNED OF THE REPUDIATION BOTH HERE AND ABROAD. IN ADDITION, THEY WAITED A CONSIDERABLE TIME TO DENY THEIR PARTICIPATION. THEY HAD A COMPLETE PLAN AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT. AS YOU KNOW, THE PLAN IS CALLED "ALL AGAINST ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE]." THIS MURDER WAS PART OF THEIR PLAN. RODRIGUEZ PORTH HAD NO ENEMIES. HE WAS A PEACEFUL MAN WHO STRUGGLED WITH HIS PEN AND IDEAS. ONLY AN IRRATIONAL MIND, LIKE THAT OF THOSE WHO ADVOCATE VIOLENCE, COULD HAVE CONCEIVED THIS ACTION. I AM CONVINCED THE FMLN DID IT.</p><p>[HURTADO] MR PRESIDENT, IF YOU AND THE [WORDS INDISTINCT] ARE CONVINCED THE FMLN IS GUILTY, WHAT WILL BECOME OF THE DIALOGUE?</p><p>[CRITIANI] WE THINK WE SHOULD OVERCOME THE EFFECT OF THIS HEAVY BLOW CAUSED BY THE LOSS, NOT ONLY OF A COLUMN OF THE PARTY AND OF OUR IDEOLOGY, BUT ALSO OF A PERSONAL FRIEND. AS MEMBERS OF THE GOVERNMENT, WE SHOULD OVERCOME OUR GRIEF AND SEEK THE GOOD OF THE COUNTRY. WE BELIEVE [WORDS INDISTINCT] VIOLENCE IS REPUDIATED AND REJECTED IN THE COUNTRY. IT IS TIME FOR THE FMLN TO TALK ABOUT ITS OBJECTIVES. THEY HAVE REJECTED THE OPPORTUNITY TO TALK WITH THE GOVERNMENT WITH UNACCEPTABLE AND UNJUSTIFIABLE ARGUMENTS. BUT OUR PROPOSAL FOR DIALOGUE IS STILL GOOD. WE ARE WILLING TO SIT DOWN AND TALK WITH THEM SO THIS VIOLENCE CAN END.</p><p>[HURTADO] HAS A COMMISSION ALREADY BEEN FORMED?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] WE ARE IN THE PROCESS OF FORMING IT. SOME OF THE PROPOSED PERSONS HAVE ALREADY AGREED TO BE MEMBERS. WE HOPE TO HAVE FORMED THE COMMISSION BY THE END OF THE WEEK. AS SOON AS WE HAVE IT, WE WILL GLADLY ANNOUNCE THE MEMBERS' NAMES. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>