<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0108"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0108"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0108</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0108 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 1 NOV 89 -- [TEXT] COLONEL MAURICIO ERNESTO VARGAS, COMMANDER OF THE 3RD INFANTRY BRIGADE, REPORTED ON 31 OCTOBER THAT BETWEEN JANUARY AND SEPTEMBER, THE ARMY HAD INFLICTED 800 CASUALTIES ON THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] AND SEIZED 300 WEAPONS IN THE EASTERN AREA OF THE COUNTRY. COL VARGAS ADDED THAT THE ARMY SUFFERED 443 CASUALTIES DURING THE SAME PERIOD. THE MILITARY COMMANDER OF THE AREA ADDED THAT 393 GUERRILLAS WERE KILLED AND 310 WOUNDED IN MORE THAN 600 CLASHES AND THAT 143 SOLDIERS WERE KILLED AND 300 WOUNDED.</p><p>"QUALITATIVE CHANGES HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN THE 3RD INFANTRY BRIGADE SINCE 1984, WHEN THE FMLN CHANGED ITS OVERALL STRATEGY FROM SEIZING POWER BY MILITARY MEANS TO THE EXTENDED PEOPLE'S WAR WHOSE BASIC ELEMENT IS THE UPRISING OF THE MASSES," COL VARGAS SAID.</p><p>VARGAS ADDED THAT DESPITE REBEL ACTIONS, THE ARMED FORCES HAVE CARRIED OUT THE GOVERNMENT'S PLANS AND ARE PROMOTING THE "EASTERN 89" PLAN IN 18 MUNICIPALITIES WITH 40 MILLION COLONS TO COVER THE COLLECTIVE AND INDIVIDUAL NEEDS OF THE PEOPLE. THEY ARE PREPARING A SECOND PHASE OF THE PLAN, WHICH WILL INCLUDE THE OTHER THREE DEPARTMENTS.</p><p>VARGAS ALSO REPORTED THAT, BECAUSE 30 PERCENT OF THE COUNTRY'S COFFEE IS GROWN IN THE EASTERN SECTOR OF THE COUNTRY, THE ARMY IS CARRYING OUT COMBING OPERATIONS TO PROTECT THE PEOPLE OF THE AREA DURING THE COFFEE HARVEST.</p><p>REGARDING THE GOVERNMENT - FMLN DIALOGUE HELD IN COSTA RICA, WHICH HE ATTENDED AS ADVISOR FOR THE GOVERNMENT COMMISSION, VARGAS SAID THE ARMED FORCES CONTINUE TO SUPPORT THE GOVERNMENT'S DEMOCRATIC NATURE. "THERE IS SOMEONE WHO IS TRYING TO HINDER THE DIALOGUE AND PEACE. WE REJECT ALL CHARGES OF INVOLVEMENT IN THE RECENT ACTS OF VIOLENCE AND ATTACKS AND PUBLICLY REITERATE OUR TOTAL SUPPORT FOR THE COUNTRY'S PEACE PROCESS," VARGAS ADDED.</p></body></html>