<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0463"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0463"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MEDELLIN"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0463</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0463 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>MEDELLIN, 11 SEP 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] PABLO PELAEZ GONZALES, 45, A FORMER MAYOR OF MEDELLIN, WAS MURDERED TODAY BY GUNMEN WHO FIRED SEVEN SHOTS AT HIM, SAID MEDICAL SOURCES AT GENERAL HOSPITAL, WHERE THE VICTIM WAS TAKEN AFTER THE ATTACK.</p><p>PELAEZ GONZALEZ WAS INTERCEPTED BY SEVERAL UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUALS WHILE ENROUTE TO HIS OFFICE FROM HIS HOME IN THE EL POBLADO NEIGHBORHOOD IN SOUTHERN MEDELLIN, COLOMBIA'S SECOND LARGEST CITY, WHERE A CURFEW HAS BEEN IN EFFECT SINCE 30 AUGUST.</p><p>THE ATTACK TOOK PLACE AT APPROXIMATELY 0845 (1345 GMT) WHEN, ACCORDING TO WITNESSES, AT LEAST THREE UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUALS FIRED FROM VARIOUS ANGLES AT PELAEZ' VEHICLE.</p><p>THE DRIVER OF THE VEHICLE, WHOM AUTHORITIES HAVE NOT YET IDENTIFIED, WAS ALSO KILLED IN THE ATTACK.</p><p>PELAEZ GONZALEZ HAD PRESIDED OVER A "SESSION FOR PEACE" ON 18 AUGUST IN MEDELLIN, WHICH IS CONSIDERED ONE OF THE MOST VIOLENT CITIES IN THE WORLD.</p><p>ON THAT VERY DAY, COLONEL WALDEMAR FRANKLIN QUINTERO OF THE POLICE FORCE IN ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT, WHOSE CAPITAL IS MEDELLIN, WAS MURDERED.</p><p>PELAEZ GONZALEZ WAS MAYOR OF MEDELLIN BETWEEN 3 MAY 1984 AND THE END OF 1985, AND WAS CURRENTLY THE PRESIDENT OF THE "TIN PLATE AND LAMINATING COMPANY" (HOLASA).</p><p>THE AUTHORITIES HAVE ATTRIBUTED THE MURDER TO THE DRUG MAFIAS, WHO ON 24 AUGUST ANNOUNCED A COUNTEROFFENSIVE TO THE GOVERNMENT MEASURES, WHICH ARE A DECLARATION OF "TOTAL WAR" AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>ON 24 AUGUST, AFTER A NUMBER OF ATTACKS, THE "EXTRADITABLES," THE ARMED BRANCH OF THE "MEDELLIN CARTEL," WHO, WITH THE CALI CARTEL ARE CONSIDERED THE WORLD'S LEADING COCAINE PRODUCERS AND DISTRIBUTORS, SAID THAT THEY WOULD RESPOND TO THE WAR WITH ATTACKS ON "POLITICIANS, JUDGES, JUSTICES, UNION AND COMPANY PRESIDENTS, JOURNALISTS, AND THE OLIGARCHY."</p><p>MEDELLIN, 200 KM TO THE NORTHWEST OF BOGOTA, HAS BEEN BESET BY A WAVE OF VIOLENCE UNLEASHED BY THE DRUG CARTELS, WHICH OVER THE PAST 3 WEEKS HAVE CARRIED OUT OVER 30 BOMB ATTACKS THAT HAVE LEFT MANY PEOPLE INJURED AND CAUSED CONSIDERABLE DAMAGE.</p></body></html>