<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1158"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1158"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1158</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1158 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 8 MAR 90 (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [TEXT] GOOD EVENING, LISTENERS. IN ORDER TO BRING CALM TO ALL SAN SALVADOR RESIDENTS, AND ALSO TO PEOPLE LIVING IN THE INTERIOR OF THE COUNTRY, WE INFORM YOU THAT A FEW MINUTES AGO, EXPERTS OF THE ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY OF EL SALVADOR, CAES, CONFIRMED THAT DESPITE A FEW ATTACKS ON SOME POWER TOWERS, ENERGY SERVICE IS COMPLETELY NORMAL THROUGHOUT SAN SALVADOR. THE CAES EXPERTS ADDED THAT THERE WAS A SHORT POWER OUTAGE IN LARGE PARTS OF SAN SALVADOR, BUT THAT THE SITUATION IS BACK TO NORMAL NOW. THE EXPERTS SAID THAT THEY ALSO DETECTED SOME DAMAGE IN THE ENERGY SYSTEM.</p><p>AS YOU MAY HAVE HEARD ON THIS RADIO STATION EARLIER, HARASSMENT OPERATIONS WERE CARRIED OUT IN SEVERAL PARTS OF SAN SALVADOR AT APPROXIMATELY 2115 TONIGHT.</p><p>FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] LEFTIST GUERRILLAS ATTACKED MILITARY POSITIONS IN SAN RAMON, AYUTUXTEPEQUE, MEJICANOS, AND CUSCATANCINGO TONIGHT. IT WAS SAID THAT A NUMBER OF FMLN MEMBERS CONDUCTED LIGHTNING ATTACKS ON THOSE MILITARY POSITIONS AND THEN WITHDREW FROM THE AREA IMMEDIATELY.</p><p>IT WAS REPORTED THAT THE ATTACK IN SAN RAMON LASTED APPROXIMATELY 15 MINUTES, AFTER WHICH THE ARMY TOOK CONTROL OF THAT ENTIRE AREA. REPORTS STATE THAT AFTER THE ATTACK IN AYUTUXTEPEQUE THE GUERRILLAS MOVED TOWARD EL CARMEN HILL AND COUNTERINSURGENCY BATTALION MEMBERS WERE PURSUING THE REBEL COLUMNS THERE. IT WAS ALSO REPORTED THAT THE REBELS ATTACKED MILITARY POSITIONS IN CUSCATANCINGO AND ON EL FITO STREET, MEJICANOS JURISDICTION.</p><p>A FEW MINUTES AGO IT WAS REPORTED THAT THE SHOOTING ENDED IN AYUTUXTEPEQUE AND IN THE OTHER PARTS OF NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR, AND THAT AN AIR FORCE HELICOPTER IS OVERFLYING THE AREA TO COUNTERACT THE REBELS' MOVEMENT.</p><p>IT WAS ALSO CONFIRMED THAT ENERGY HAS BEEN RESTORED IN SOME PARTS OF SAN SALVADOR, BUT NOT IN CUSCATANCINGO AND CIUDAD DELGADO, WHERE THE GUERRILLAS BLEW UP SEVERAL POWER TOWERS.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE [COPREFA] HAS ONLY STATED THAT NO CASUALTIES ARE REPORTED AS A RESULT OF THESE HARASSMENT OPERATIONS, ESPECIALLY IN THE AREA OF AYUTUXTEPEQUE. COPREFA INDICATED THAT 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE MEMBERS HAVE ALREADY TAKEN STRATEGIC POSITIONS THROUGHOUT NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR AND THAT THESE MEN ARE SUPPORTED BY SALVADORAN AIR FORCE HELICOPTERS, WHICH ARE LIGHTING THE AREA WITH SPOTLIGHTS AND FLARES.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL REPORT, THE SITUATION AT THIS TIME IS COMPLETELY NORMAL IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR, DESPITE THE PANIC THAT SPREAD AT APPROXIMATELY 2115 WHEN HEAVY SHOOTING, MACHINEGUN FIRE, AND THE DETONATION OF POWERFUL BOMBS WERE HEARD.</p><p>NEITHER COPREFA NOR THE SPECIFIC MILITARY POSITIONS THAT WERE ATTACKED HAVE REPORTED CASUALTIES SO FAR. IT WAS SAID THAT TOMORROW MORNING COPREFA WILL ISSUE AN OVERALL REPORT ON THE RESULTS OF THESE CLASHES. SALVADORAN RED CROSS SOURCES SAID TONIGHT THAT THEY DO NOT KNOW OF ANY CIVILIAN CASUALTY RESULTING FROM THESE ARMED INCIDENTS.</p><p>THIS HAS BEEN A REPORT ON THE ATTACKS CARRIED OUT IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR TONIGHT. WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN US TOMORROW FOR A REPORT ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF EVENTS.</p></body></html>