<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1274"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1274"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1274</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1274 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 6 MAY 90 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI] [TEXT] FIRST LADY OF THE NATION, MR. VICE PRESIDENT, YOUR EXCELLENCIES OF THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS, MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES HIGH COMMAND, GENERALS, CHIEFS, OFFICERS, NON-COMMISSIONED OFFICERS, TROOPS, PUBLIC SECURITY POLICEMEN, AND ADMINISTRATIVE PERSONNEL, SALVADORAN PEOPLE:</p><p>WE HAVE GATHERED HERE, UNITED BY A SHARED FEELING OF PATRIOTISM, TO OFFER A TRIBUTE OF ADMIRATION AND APPRECIATION TO ALL OF THE MEMBERS OF OUR ARMED FORCES. WITHIN THE COMMEMORATIVE FRAMEWORK OF SOLDIERS DAY, FROM THE VERY DEPTH OF OUR HEARTS, WE FIRST OF ALL PAY HOMAGE OF UNDYDING GRATITUDE TO OUR SALVADORAN BROTHERS WHO, WEARING THE ARMED FORCES' UNIFORM, HAVE GIVEN THEIR LIVES TO DEFEND OUR DEAR FATHERLAND. WITH THEIR GENEROUS BLOOD THEY HAVE FERTILIZED THE PATH OF PEACE, DEMOCRACY, AND FREEDOM FOR THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>WE PAY HOMAGE TO THE SOLDIERS KILLED IN COMBAT WHILE FULFILLING THE SACRED MISSION OF DEFENDING THE RPUBLIC'S SOVEREIGNTY AND INTEGRITY. IT IS WITH EMOTION THAT WE EVOKE THOSE BROTHERS WHO, STOICALLY CONFRONTING DANGER AND DEATH, GAVE THEIR LIVES SO THAT OUR COUNTRY WOULD HAVE A BETTER FUTURE, AND SO THAT PRESENT AND FUTURE GENERATIONS COULD BUILD A MORE HUMAN AND SOLIDARY SOCIETY.</p><p>WE PAY SPECIAL TRIBUTE TO ONE OF THOSE MEN WHO, IN THE FULL BLOOM OF YOUTH, HAS GONE ON TO FORM PART OF OUR ARMED FORCES' GLORIOUS HISTORY, WHO GAVE HIS LIFE FOR THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. I AM REFERRING TO CAPTAIN JOSE ALFONSO CHAVEZ GARCIA, A WORTHY EXAMPLE OF DEVOTION TO SERVICE TO THE FATHERLAND. HIS MEMORY WILL ALWAYS BE A SOURCE OF INSPIRATION TO EVERY SALVADORAN SOLDIER WHO IS FIGHTING FOR OUR PEOPLE'S FREEDOM AND GLORY. AS OF TODAY, THE SPECIAL ANTI- TERRORIST COMMANDO, CEAT, WILL BEAR CAPT CHAVEZ' NAME IN JUST RECOGNITION OF HIS PROFESSIONALISM AND DEVOTION TO THE FATHERLAND'S SACRED VALUES.</p><p>WITH THESE SAME FEELINGS OF ADMIRATION AND AFFECTION, WE GREET THE MOTHERS, FATHERS, CHILDREN, BROTHERS, WIVES, AND RELATIVES OF OUR SOLDIERS, WHO IN FULFILLING THEIR DUTIES HAVE WRITTEN PAGES OF FEARLESSNESS AND COURAGE, THEREBY ENDLESSLY PROLONGING THEIR NOBLE EXAMPLES IN OUR PEOPLE'S CONSCIENCES.</p><p>AT THIS SOLDIERS DAY EVENT, IN MY CAPACITY AS PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC AND GENERAL COMMANDER OF THE ARMED FORCES, I STRONGLY EMBRACE ALL OF THE MEMBERS OF OUR ARMED INSTITUTION. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>