<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1268"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1268"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1268</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1268 (BOEING)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 5 MAY 90 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] OFFICIAL SOURCES HAVE REPORTED THAT A GUATEMALAN CARGO PLANE OWNED BY THE TRASLADOS COMPANY CRASHED THIS AFTERNOON ON TOP OF SEVERAL HOUSES IN NORTHERN GUATEMALA CITY, CAUSING AN UNDETERMINED NUMBER OF DEAD AND WOUNDED.</p><p>CIVIL AERONAUTICS PERSONNEL CONFIRMED TO ACAN - EFE THAT THE THREE CREW MEMBERS OF THE DC-6 WERE U.S. CITIZENS WHO HAD BEEN HIRED TO FLY THE PLANE TO MIAMI.</p><p>SOURCES FROM THE MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT SAID THE PLANE DESTROYED 12 HOUSES. THE NUMBER OF DEAD AND WOUNDED ARE STILL UNKNOWN.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE INITIAL REPORTS, THE ACCIDENT OCCURRED SHORTLY AFTER THE PLANE TOOK OFF FROM THE LA AURORA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, AND APPARENTLY WAS DUE TO THE LOSS OF AN ENGINE.</p><p>FIRE DEPARTMENT SPOKESMAN HAROLDO JUAREZ SAID THERE HAVE BEEN EXPLOSIONS IN THE DRAINAGE SYSTEM BECAUSE OF THE GASES THAT HAD ACCUMULATED FROM THE FUEL SPILLED BY THE PLANE.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE SPOKESMAN, THE PILOT TRIED TO LAND ON AN EMPTY LOT BUT HE WAS UNABLE TO DO SO AND CRASHED IN THE HOUSING AREA.</p><p>JUAREZ SAID THE EXACT NUMBER OF DEAD AND WOUNDED IS UNKNOWN BUT UNOFFICIALLY THERE ARE REPORTS OF 15 DEAD AND MORE THAN 20 INJURED.</p></body></html>