<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0363"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0363"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0363</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0363 (BBN)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 21 AUG 89 (PRENSA LIBRE) -- [TEXT] THE STAFF REPORTERS OF THE NEW MAGAZINE POR QUE RESIGNED THEIR POSTS THIS WEEKEND AFTER RECEIVING DEATH THREATS. THE FORMER REPORTERS INDICATED THIS SITUATION COULD MEAN THE MAGAZINE MAY CLOSE THIS WEEK.</p><p>THE REPORTER INDICATED THAT THE ANONYMOUS THREATS BEGAN ON 18 AUGUST WHEN THEY WERE ORDERED TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY IN 72 HOURS. THESE NEWSMEN WERE FORCED TO RESIGN THEIR JOBS, BUT OTHER REPORTERS, WHO ALSO RECEIVED THREATENING TELEPHONE CALLS, DID NOT.</p><p>THE FORMER REPORTERS INDICATED THAT THIS IS YET ANOTHER ATTACK ON FREEDOM OF INFORMATION AND THOUGHT SINCE 1 AUGUST, WHEN CHRISTIAN DEMOCRAT IDEOLOGUE DANILO BARILLAS, WHO WROTE COLUMNS FOR THE MAGAZINE, WAS MURDERED.</p><p>A FEW DAYS AFTER BARRILLA'S MURDER, ROLANDO PINEDA LAM, POR QUE MAGAZINE PUBLISHER AND SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE COMMITTEE FOR THE CREATION OF THE POPULAR ALLIANCE PARTY-5, FOUNDED BY DANILO BARILLAS UNDER THE NAME FCD-5 [CIVIC DEMOCRATIC FRONT], HAD TO GO INTO EXILE.</p><p>WE HAVE LEARNED THAT THE MAGAZINE POR QUE BELONGS TO THE TALENTO EMPRESARIAL COMPANY, IS EDITED BY ASOCIACION LIBRO EXITO, INC, AND APPEARS EVERY TUESDAY.</p><p>THE EDITORIAL HOUSE DECIDED TO SUSPEND PUBLICATION BECAUSE OF THE DEATH THREATS. SO, IT IS VERY LIKELY THAT THIS NEWS MEDIUM WILL DIE A FEW MONTHS AFTER IT BEGAN.</p><p>ACTS OF INTIMIDATION AGAINST THE PRODUCTION AND ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF OF THE AFOREMENTIONED MAGAZINE OCCUR ALMOST SIMULTANEOUSLY WITH CHARGES BY THE GUATEMALAN CHAMBER OF JOURNALISM THAT THE COUNTRY'S INDEPENDENT PRESS IS BEING HARASSED.</p></body></html>