<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0510"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0510"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0510</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0510 (UMASS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 22 SEP 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] A DISTRIBUTION AGENCY OF THE BOGOTA NEWSPAPER EL ESPECTADOR AND THE OFFICE OF THE MORNING NEWSPAPER EL SIGLO WERE THE TARGETS OF TERRORIST ATTACKS TONIGHT WHICH LEFT ONE POLICEMAN SLIGHTLY INJURED AND CAUSED CONSIDERABLE DAMAGE, THE AUTHORITIES HAVE REPORTED.</p><p>IN THE FIRST ATTACK, A 5-KG DYNAMITE CHARGE EXPLODED IN A BRANCH OF EL ESPECTADOR IN THE SUBURB OF NORMANDIA IN THE WESTERN PART OF BOGOTA.</p><p>A SECURITY GUARD WAS INJURED BY THE SHATTERED GLASS CAUSED BY THE IMPACT OF THE EXPLOSION.</p><p>ALTHOUGH THE NEWSPAPER OFFICE WAS NOT SERIOUSLY DAMAGED, SOME 10 HOMES NEARBY WERE.</p><p>THE PRINCIPAL OFFICE OF EL ESPECTADOR, A NEWSPAPER WHICH HAS MAINTAINED A HARDLINE POSITION ON DRUG TRAFFICKING AND WHOSE DIRECTOR WAS ASSASSINATED IN DECEMBER 1986, WAS THE TARGET OF A VIOLENT CAR BOMB ATTACK 20 DAYS AGO.</p><p>IN ANOTHER TERRORIST ACTION, SEVERAL MEN IN A VEHICLE OPENED FIRE ON THE OFFICES OF THE NEWSPAPER EL SIGLO, BUT NOBODY WAS INJURED.</p><p>THIS IS THE SECOND ATTACK OF THIS KIND AGAINST THE NEWSPAPER IN THE PAST FEW DAYS. THE DIRECTOR OF THE NEWSPAPER IS FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE ALVARO GOMEZ.</p><p>IN VIEW OF THE INCREASED DYNAMITE ATTACKS SINCE 21 SEPTEMBER, WHEN NINE POLITICAL OFFICES AND THREE BANK BRANCHES WERE ATTACKED, THE ARMY AND POLICE HAVE INCREASED VIGILANCE IN BOGOTA.</p></body></html>