<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0857"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0857"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0857</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0857 (GTE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 23 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] JUST AS WE REPORTED THIS AFTERNOON, FASCIST CRISTIANI AND PONCE, THE VISIBLE HEAD OF LA TANDONA [REFERENCE TO THE 1966 GRADUATING CLASS OF THE CAPTAIN GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY ACADEMY] HELD A PECULIAR NEWS CONFERENCE WHICH NOT EVEN THE CUSCATLAN RADIO NETWORK EVEN DARED BROADCAST.</p><p>THE NEWS CONFERENCE HAD JUST BEGUN THIS AFTERNOON WITH CRISTIANI AND SOME REPORTERS. PONCE WAS BESIDE HIM. SUDDENLY, AN EXPLOSION OCCURRED WHICH STARTLED BOTH CRISTIANI AND PONCE. THE NERVOUSNESS OF CRISTIANI AND PONCE DID NOT FADE AWAY. THEY WERE SCARED. THE REPORTERS ASKED FOR AN EXPLANATION OF THE EXPLOSION. AFTER STAMMERING FOR A WHILE, PONCE SAID IT WAS A BOMBING BY THE ARMY ON THE SLOPES OF THE [SAN] SALVADOR VOLCANO.</p><p>IN THE NEWS CONFERENCE, CRISTIANI REJECTED THE FMLN'S [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] POSITION, WHICH HE DESCRIBED AS A PROPOSAL. BUT THE FMLN HAS MADE NO PROPOSAL. THE FMLN HAS BUT ECHOED THE CLAMOR OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY AND VARIOUS ORGANIZATIONS, ALL OF WHICH DEMAND A CEASE - FIRE IN THE COUNTRY. CONSEQUENTLY, CRISTIANI HAS NOT REJECTED A CEASE - FIRE PROPOSAL, BUT THE POSITION OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY.</p></body></html>