<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0045"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0045"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-01-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0045</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0045 (NOSC)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 26 JAN 89 -- [INTERVIEW WITH PRESIDENT JOSE AZCONA BY JULIO ARMANDO VALDES] [EXCERPT] [AZCONA] ...WHICH HAS DISMAYED ALL HONDURAN PEOPLE. THE GOVERNMENT STRONGLY CONDEMNS THIS KIND OF ACTION--THE MURDER OF [RETIRED] GENERAL GUSTAVO ALVAREZ MARTINEZ--WHICH WAS POLITICALLY MOTIVATED AND PERPETRATED BY PROFESSIONALS, AND WHICH, I BELIEVE, DESERVES THE DENUNCIATION OF ALL HONDURANS.</p><p>[VALDES] MR PRESIDENT, WILL THE THREE BRANCHES OF GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES ADOPT ADDITIONAL SECURITY MEASURES?</p><p>[AZCONA] YES, WE WILL BE DISCUSSING THAT SOON. I HAVE A MEETING SCHEDULED WITH THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL, WHICH WILL ALSO BE ATTENDED BY THE THREE PRESIDENTS OF THE STATE BRANCHES. I MEAN, THE [WORDS INDISTINCT] WILL CHAIR THE MEETING, AND NATIONAL CONGRESS PRESIDENT CARLOS ARBIN MONTOYA AND SUPREME COURT PRESIDENT SALOMON JIMENEZ CASTRO WILL ALSO ATTEND. WE HAVE ALSO INVITED THE CANDIDATES OF THE TWO [NUMBER AS HEARD] PARTIES TO THIS MEETING SINCE ONE OF THEM IS GOING TO BE THE NEXT HONDURAN PRESIDENT. WE PLAN TO ESTABLISH SOME GUIDELINE--SOME RULES TO BE FOLLOWED--NOT JUST FOR THE REMAINDER OF OUR TERM BUT IN THE FUTURE AS WELL, BECAUSE WE SHOULD BE FARSIGHTED AND NOT JUST CONCENTRATE ON THE SHORT TERM, WHICH HAS BEEN VERY COMMON IN HONDURAS, WHERE WE LOOK AND FIND SOLUTIONS ONLY FOR THE PRESENT. WE SHOULD FIND SOLUTIONS JOINTLY [WORDS INDISTINCT] IN THE LONG RUN, WHICH INCLUDES THE ISSUE OF VIOLENCE. WE BELIEVE IN A DEMOCRACY LIKE OURS, WHICH IS A VERY COMPLETE DEMOCRACY. IN OTHER WORDS, THERE ARE INTERNAL ELECTIONS FOR SELECTING CANDIDATES, WHERE CITIZENS ENJOY FULL RIGHTS, WHERE PARTIES AND PARTY LEADERS CONSULT WITH THE PEOPLE, WHERE WE HAVE TRUE, CLEAN, AND HONEST ELECTIONS, WHERE WE HAVE A NATIONAL ELECTORAL COMMISSION THAT IS NOT INFLUENCED BY NOR CAN IT BE INFLUENCED BY THE GOVERNMENT, AND WHERE THE STATE BRANCHES ARE TOTALLY INDEPENDENT.</p><p>ALL OF THESE CHARACTERISTICS MAKE HONDURAS A DEMOCRACY, AND EVERY SECTOR OF HONDURAN SOCIETY SHOULD STRIVE TO STRENGTHEN THEM BY AVOIDING VIOLENCE AT ALL COSTS, OBEYING THE LAW, AND CONDEMNING AND ATTACKING EXTREME TERRORIST GROUPS REGARDLESS OF THEIR AFFILIATION, THUS ENABLING US TO CONSOLIDATE OUR DEMOCRACY AND REACH THE LEVEL OF POLITICAL DEVELOPMENT ATTAINED BY OTHER DEMOCRATIC COUNTRIES.</p><p>IT HAS BEEN DEMONSTRATED WORLDWIDE THAT PROGRESS AND DEVELOPMENT CAN ONLY BE ACHIEVED THROUGH DEMOCRACY. THE FRG, THE MEDITERRANEAN COUNTRIES--ITALY, FRANCE, AND SPAIN--ARE EXAMPLES OF THIS, AND THERE IS THE CASE OF JAPAN, WHICH HAS A LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM AND HAS ACHIEVED EXTRAORDINARY LEVELS OF DEVELOPMENT. TAIWAN IS YET ANOTHER EXAMPLE. AT THIS STAGE...</p><p>[VALDES, INTERRUPTING] YES, BUT THIS TAKES TIME.</p><p>[AZCONA] YES. AT THIS STAGE I BELIEVE THERE IS SUFFICIENT PROOF THAT THE DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM IS THE BEST MEANS OF ATTAINING HIGHER LEVELS OF DEVELOPMENT. THERE IS NO DOUBT IN ANYONE'S MIND ABOUT THAT, BUT THE FACT THAT WE HAVE THIS SYSTEM IS NOT ENOUGH. EACH ONE OF US, EACH SECTOR, MUST DO HIS PART TO MAKE IT WORK.</p><p>WHEN I MENTION SECTORS, I AM REFERRING TO PRIVATE ENTERPRISE, WHICH MUST BE GENEROUS, EXHIBIT CONFIDENCE IN THE COUNTRY, AND SHOW MUCH INITIATIVE; TO ORGANIZED LABOR GROUPS, WHICH MUST FIGHT FOR THEIR RIGHTS WITHOUT FOMENTING STRIKES AND OTHER DISORDERS, WHICH ARE SOMETIMES BROUGHT ABOUT ILLEGALLY INSTEAD OF FOLLOWING THE NORMAL LEGAL PROCEDURES; TO PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS, WHICH ALSO HAVE AN ENORMOUS RESPONSIBILITY, BECAUSE THEIR MEMBERS MUST COMPLY WITH THEIR DUTIES; AND THE SAME GOES FOR GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES AND OTHERS.</p><p>IN OTHER WORDS, THIS WILL NOT BE ACCOMPLISHED BY THIS OR THE NEXT GOVERNMENT ALONE. OUR GOVERNMENTS ARE TRANSITORY AND THEIR POWER IS RELATIVE. I HAVE SAID THIS MANY TIMES. THERE IS NO POINT IN LASHING OUT AT THE PRESIDENT, BECAUSE POWER IN HONDURAS IS RELATIVE AND CONDITIONAL. WHAT IS ESSENTIAL IS TO CONTRIBUTE POSITIVELY TOWARD HONDURAS' DEVELOPMENT. THIS SHOULD BE A RESPONSIBILITY NOT ONLY OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES, BUSINESSMEN, WORKERS, AND ORGANIZED PEASANTS, BUT ALL HONDURANS SHOULD CONTRIBUTE. THAT IS WHAT COUNTS.</p><p>[VALDES] MR PRESIDENT, WHEN WILL THIS MEETING BE HELD AND WHAT IMMEDIATE MEASURES WILL YOU PROPOSE?</p><p>[AZCONA] THE APPROPRIATE AUTHORITIES ARE DOING EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO INVESTIGATE THE LATEST CRIME, WHICH WAS NOT AN EVERYDAY OCCURRENCE LIKE A ROBBERY OR SOMETHING OF THAT NATURE. THIS CRIME WAS CAREFULLY PLANNED. IT WAS A TERRORIST ACT PERPETRATED BY PROFESSIONALS.</p><p>[VALDES] MR PRESIDENT, SOME PEOPLE HAVE BEEN SAYING THAT THE DEATH PENALTY MIGHT BE A WAY TO COPE WITH THE SITUATION. WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THIS?</p><p>[AZCONA] I RECENTLY READ SOMETHING ABOUT THE DEATH PENALTY IN A MEXICAN MAGAZINE. THE DEATH PENALTY IS OPPOSED BY A MAJORITY OF THE PEOPLE AND HAS BEEN ABOLISHED IN HONDURAS. I DO NOT THINK THIS IS THE SOLUTION HERE BECAUSE THE DEATH PENALTY HAS NOT SOLVED THE CRIME PROBLEM ANYWHERE ELSE IN THE WORLD. FOR INSTANCE, THIS PENALTY EXISTS IN MANY U.S. STATES, BUT THIS HAS NOT DETERRED CRIMINALS FROM COMMITTING TERRIBLE CRIMES. PEOPLE HAVE LOST CONTROL. WHEN CRIMINALS HAVE NO RESPECT FOR THEIR FELLOW MAN, NOT EVEN THE DEATH PENALTY CAN STOP THEM. HOWEVER, THERE ARE CRIMES, SUCH AS DRUG TRAFFICKING, FOR WHICH NO BAIL SHOULD BE PERMITTED. I THINK A BILL THAT HAS BEEN PROPOSED BY THE SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE SHOULD BE PASSED BY THE CONGRESS. OF COURSE, IT WILL BE APPROVED BY THE PRESIDENT SO THOSE FOUND GUILTY OF THIS CRIME CANNOT BE BAILED OUT. IT IS NOT RIGHT FOR THE AUTHORITIES TO ARREST A DRUG TRAFFICKER ONLY TO SEE HIM RELEASED ON BAIL BY A JUDGE WHO HAS NO OTHER CHOICE THAN TO ABIDE BY THE LAW.</p><p>[VALDES] MR PRESIDENT, THE FAR RIGHTIST GROUP AAA [ANTICOMMUNIST ACTION ALLIANCE], THROUGH A LOCAL RADIO STATION, WARNED THAT THEY WILL TAKE REVENGE ON MAJOR COMMUNIST LEADERS, SUCH AS JORGE ARTURO REINA, RAMON CUSTODIO, AND OTHERS. WHAT DO YOU HAVE TO SAY ABOUT THIS?</p><p>[AZCONA] I AM ADAMANTLY OPPOSED TO THIS TYPE OF REVENGE BECAUSE IT WOULD ONLY LEAD TO ESCALATED CONFRONTATIONS BETWEEN GROUPS. I CONDEMN THIS ATTITUDE IN VIEW OF THE REGRETTABLE MURDER OF GENERAL GUSTAVO ALVAREZ MARTINEZ. AS FAR AS THE DEATH PENALTY GOES, IT WILL NOT BE A SOLUTION TO THE CRIME PROBLEM.</p><p>[VALDES] MR PRESIDENT, CIVIC COMMITTEES HAVE TO BE ORGANIZED IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>[AZCONA] I AGREE, BUT THESE COMMITTEES SHOULD BE CONTROLLED BY THE AUTHORITIES. A CIVIC COMMITTEE TO PROTECT COMMUNITIES IS ONE THING, BUT IT IS QUITE ANOTHER THING TO SUE THESE COMMITTEES TO PERFORM DUTIES THAT ARE ALREADY THE RESPONSIBILITY OF STATE AGENCIES, SUCH AS THE ARMED FORCES.</p><p>[VALDES] WHEN WILL THE GOVERNMENT BRANCHES MEET?</p><p>[AZCONA] THEY WILL MEET WHEN I RETURN FROM CARACAS.</p></body></html>