<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1078"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1078"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1078</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1078 (UNISYS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 21 JAN 90 (EL DIARIO DE HOY) -- [TEXT] THE NATIONAL POLICE ANNOUNCED ON 20 JANUARY THAT IT HAS ABUNDANT EVIDENCE OF THE GUILT OF U.S. CITIZEN JENNIFER JEAN CASOLO, WHO WAS ARRESTED ON 24 NOVEMBER IN HER HOME IN THE MIRALVALLE NEIGHBORHOOD OF THIS CAPITAL, WHERE A LARGE NUMBER OF WEAPONS AND A GREAT QUANTITY OF DOCUMENTS BELONGING TO THE FMLN-FDR [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT - REVOLUTIONARY DEMOCRATIC FRONT] WERE FOUND BURIED IN THE YARD.</p><p>CASOLO WAS ARRAIGNED 8 DAYS [AS PUBLISHED] AFTER HER ARREST, BUT WAS RELEASED BY THE JUDGE "FOR LACK OF EVIDENCE," ACCORDING TO THE JUDICIAL RECORDS.</p><p>ALTHOUGH IN SALVADORAN JUDICIAL CIRCLES IT IS NOT CLEAR WHY CASOLO WAS RELEASED, IT IS BELIEVED THAT THERE WERE POLITICAL FACTORS INVOLVED.</p><p>AT PRESENT, CASOLO HEADS GROUPS THAT HAVE LAUNCHED A VIRULENT CAMPAIGN AGAINST EL SALVADOR IN THE UNITED STATES, CLAIMING ALLEGED "RELIGIOUS PERSECUTION."</p><p>CASOLO WAS CAPTURED AFTER THE TERRORIST FAUSTO GALLARDO VALDEZ GAVE HER NAME TO THE POLICE, TELLING THEM WHERE TO FIND THE WEAPONS THAT HE AND HIS ACCOMPLICES USED FOR TERRORIST ACTS. THE PRISONER SAID THAT THE WEAPONS WERE PROVIDED BY CASOLO AT HER HOME IN THE MIRALVALLE NEIGHBORHOOD, WHICH SERVED AS A CLANDESTINE ARSENAL.</p><p>IN VIEW OF THIS CONFESSION, THE POLICE REQUESTED THE PARTICIPATION OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE U.S. EMBASSY, WHO WERE PRESENT IN THE COURSE OF THE PROCEEDINGS AND WHEN THE WEAPONS WERE DUG UP IN FRONT OF CASOLO HERSELF.</p><p>WHEN CASOLO RETURNED TO THE UNITED STATES, SHE ADMITTED THAT SHE HAD BURIED DOCUMENTS IN THE YARD OF THE HOUSE WHERE SHE LIVED, BUT SHE LIED BY SAYING THAT SHE DID THIS BECAUSE "IN EL SALVADOR PEOPLE COMMONLY BURY DOCUMENTS OR JEWELS TO KEEP THEM FROM BEING STOLEN BY CRIMINALS."</p><p>SOURCES SAY THAT AT PRESENT, AT THE HEAD OF GROUPS OF COMMUNISTS FROM THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER COUNTRIES WHO SUPPORT THEIR SALVADORAN COUNTERPARTS, CASOLO HAS BEGUN A NATIONWIDE CAMPAIGN TO DISCREDIT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNRMENT AND TO PRESSURE CONGRESS TO REDUCE OR ELIMINATE AID TO OUR COUNTRY IN ORDER TO WEAKEN THE COUNTRY INSTITUTIONALLY AND STRENGTHEN THE FMLN-FDR TERRORIST GROUPS.</p><p>THE POLICE REPORT THAT THE TERRORIST GALLARDO VALDEZ, FROM WHOM WEAPONS AND AMMOUNITION WERE SEIZED ON 24 NOVEMBER, SAID THAT HE HAD OBTAINED THE WEAPONS AT THE HOME OF A WOMAN WHO APPEARED TO BE A FOREIGNER ON BARCELONA AVENUE, MIRALVALLE NEIGHBORHOOD, IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>THAT SAME DAY, POLICE INVESTIGATORS LOCATED THE HOUSE, IDENTIFIED THE PERSON LIVING THERE, AND INVITED U.S. EMBASSY OFFICIALS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE SEARCH.</p><p>BURIED AT THE HOUSE THEY FOUND 103 SHELLS FOR 60-MM MORTARS, 213 STICKS OF TNT, 405 ELECTRIC DETONATING CAPS, 150 FEET OF SLOW FUSES, 15 KNIVES, 3 CARTRIDGE CLIPS FOR AK-47 RIFLES, 12,510 AK-47 SHELLS, 9,110 M-16 RIFLE SHELLS, 325 G-3 RIFLE SHELLS, AND DOCUMENTS.</p><p>IN HER UNOFFICIAL STATEMENT, CASOLO SAID THAT SHE DID NOT BELONG TO ANY SUBVERSIVE GROUP OR ASSOCIATION, AND THAT SHE DID NOT KNOW HOW THE ARTICLES CAME TO BE IN HER HOUSE.</p><p>ON 5 DECEMBER, CASOLO AND A GROUP OF SALVADORANS WERE ARRAIGNED BEFORE A MILITARY JUDGE, WHO 5 DAYS LATER RELEASED THEM "FOR LACK OF EVIDENCE."</p><p>ON 9 DECEMBER, POLICEMEN ARRESTED A WOMAN NAMED RUTH ESPERANZA AGUILAR MARROQUIN, ALIAS MARINA, WHO WAS FLEEING AFTER HAVING PLACED A BOMB IN THE ENGINE OF A BUS. ON BEING QUESTIONED, SHE SAID SHE WAS AN ACTIVE MEMBER OF THE PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY ARMY, THAT THE PERSON IN CHARGE OF LOGISTICS WAS THE AMERICAN, CASOLO, AND THAT SHE HAD OBTAINED THE EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL AT CASOLO'S HOME IN MIRALVALLE.</p><p>THE POLICE HAVE DENIED CASOLO'S CHARGES THAT DURING HER DETENTION SHE WAS SUBJECTED TO PHYSICAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL TORTURE, BECAUSE IT CAN PROVE THAT WHILE CASOLO WAS UNDER ARREST, SHE WAS ACCOMPANIED BY AN EMBASSY OFFICIAL, EVEN AT MEALTIME.</p></body></html>