<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0024"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0024"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0024</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0024 (NOSC)</p><p>LA PAZ, 12 JAN 90 (EFE) -- [EXCERPT] TWO BOMB ATTACKS WERE CARRIED OUT IN LA PAZ LAST NIGHT, ONE IN FRONT OF GOVERNMENT HOUSE FOLLOWING THE MESSAGE TO THE NATION OVER A RADIO AND TELEVISION NETWORK BY PRESIDENT JAIME PAZ ZAMORA.</p><p>THE EXPLOSIONS DID NOT CAUSE ANY SERIOUS DAMAGE BUT THE POLICE WERE MOBILIZED, FEARING A WAVE OF ATTACKS.</p><p>THE SELF-STYLED "ZARATE WILLKA LIBERATION ARMED FORCES" SENT SIMULTANEOUS WRITTEN MESSAGES TO THE MEDIA, CALLING ON THE PEOPLE TO OPPOSE THE GOVERNMENT, WHICH IT SAYS IS "AT THE SERVICE OF THE WEALTHY AND THE EXPLOITERS." IT ALSO CALLS FOR FREE EDUCATION, THE ESTABLISHMENT OF PERMANENT JOBS, THE DEFENSE OF COCA-LEAF FARMING, AND THE DEFENSE AGAINST U.S. INTERVENTION AND BIG LAND OWNERS.</p><p>THE FIRST BOMB ATTACK OCCURRED AT 2230 [0230 GMT ON 12 JANUARY] IN FRONT OF THE PLANNING AND ECONOMIC COORDINATION MINISTRY, JUST BEFORE PRESIDENT PAZ ZAMORA CONCLUDED HIS MESSAGE TO THE NATION IN WHICH HE EXPLAINED THE GUIDELINES OF THE GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAM THAT THE GOVERNMENT WILL IMPLEMENT BETWEEN 1990 AND 1993.</p><p>ROBERTO BARBERY, INTERIOR MINISTRY INTELLIGENCE DEPARTMENT DIRECTOR, HAS REPORTED THAT DYNAMITE STICKS WERE HURLED FROM A CAR.</p><p>THE SECOND ATTACK OCCURRED AT 2335 [0335 GMT ON 12 JANUARY], JUST AFTER THE CABINET MEMBERS HAD LEFT GOVERNMENT HOUSE WHERE THEY HAD LISTENED TO THE PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE.</p><p>A BOMB WAS PLACED OUTSIDE GOVERNMENT HOUSE IN THE PARKING LOT THAT IS USED BY CABINET MINISTERS. THE POLICE PLACED THE BOMB IN A NEARBY FLOWER BED, WHERE IT WENT OFF. THE SHOCK WAVE SHATTERED SOME WINDOWS IN GOVERNMENT HOUSE AND STREET LAMPS IN THE PLAZA MURILLO.</p><p>AS OF 0500 GMT TODAY, THE POLICE HAD RECEIVED REPORTS OF TWO OTHER EXPLOSIONS IN TWO LA PAZ NEIGHBORHOODS, BUT THESE HAVE NOT YET BEEN CONFIRMED. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p></body></html>