<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0399"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0399"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0399</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0399 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 30 AUG 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 2) -- [TEXT] THE RESIGNATIONS OF THREE OF THE JUDGES IN CHARGE OF INVESTIGATING THE MURDERS OF THE GOVERNOR OF ANTIOQUIA, ANOTHER JUDGE, AND THE ANTIOQUIA POLICE COMMANDER, WERE ANNOUNCED TODAY. MOREOVER, TWO OF THE JUDGES LEFT COLOMBIA.</p><p>MEANWHILE, ALMOST 4,000 MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL POLICE AND THE MEDELLIN SECURITY FORCES WILL PATROL THE METROPOLITAN AREA THROUGHOUT THE NIGHT. REVENUE GUARDS [CARABINEROS], GOES [SPECIAL OPERATIONS GROUP] AGENTS, MEMBERS OF THE CITIZEN ORDER DEPARTMENT [DEPARTAMENTO DE ORDEN CIUDADANO], AND TRAFFIC POLICEMEN WILL BE ON ALERT.</p><p>AMONG THE MEASURES PLANNED BY THE METROPOLITAN POLICE FOR THE CURFEW THAT BEGINS TONIGHT IN MEDELLIN ARE THE INSTALLATION OF 18 CHECKPOINTS STRATEGICALLY LOCATED AT THE METROPOLITAN AREA'S LEADING ENTRANCES AND EXITS. THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY POLICEMEN WILL GUARD THE CHECKPOINTS AND CONDUCT SEARCHES. THEY WILL WORK AROUND-THE- CLOCK SEARCHING VEHICLES AND INDIVIDUALS TRAVELING IN THOSE AREAS. THE NINE PERMANENT AND NINE MOBILE CHECKPOINTS WILL BE USEFUL IN LOCATING WEAPONS, EXPLOSIVES, DRUGS, CRIMINALS, AND STOLEN VEHICLES. SEVERAL OF THE CHECKPOINTS WILL BE REINFORCED WITH ARMORED ANTIRIOT VEHICLES IN ANTICIPATION OF CLASHES.</p></body></html>