<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0230"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0230"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0230</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0230 (ADS)</p><p>LA PAZ, 26 MAY 89 (PRESENCIA) -- [EXCERPTS] INTERIOR MINISTER EDUARDO PEREZ BELTRAN HAS BLAMED THE MURDER OF TWO U.S. MORMON MISSIONARIES ON NARCOTERRORISTS, WHO WANT TO GIVE IT A POLITICAL CONNOTATION. "DRUG TRAFFICKERS MIGHT BE INVOLVED IN THIS CRIME, AND THEY WANT TO GIVE IT POLITICAL CONNOTATIONS," PEREZ SAID.</p><p>PEREZ SAID THAT THE MRUDER OF THE TWO MISSIONARIES MIGHT BE A "COPYCAT MURDER" DONE WITH THE INTENTION OF BLAMING THE "ZARATE WILKA GROUP WITH HAVING DONE IT." HE ADDED THAT THE GROUP IS NAMED AFTER A PEASANT LEADER WHO LIVED EARLY THIS CENTURY. THE PEASANT HAD NO POLITICAL AFFILIATION WHATSOEVER. THIS IS WHY WE CAN NOT SAY WITH ABSOLUTE CERTAINTY THAT GUERRILLA GROUPS ARE OPERATING IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE FAL-ZARATE WILKA GROUP, WHICH CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CRIME, LEFT A HANDWRITTEN MESSAGE TO THE EFFECT THAT THEIR WAR IS TO KILL "THE YANKEE INVADERS WHO COME HERE TO MASSACRE OUR PEASANT BROTHERS."</p><p>REFERRING TO THE MESSAGE LEFT AT THE SCENE, THE INTERIOR MINISTER SAID THAT AN INITIAL ANALYSIS OF THE MESSAGE REVEALS THAT IT WAS WRITTEN IN LANGUAGUE NOT COMMONLY USED BY A LEFTIST POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. THE MESSAGE IS VAGUE WHEN IT REFERS TO BOTH NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY AND THE EXPLOITATION OF PEASANTS. THIS IS A CRIME IN WHICH DRUG TRAFFICKERS MIGHT BE INVOLVED AND TO WHICH THEY WANT TO ATTACH A POLITICAL CONNOTATION," PEREZ SAID.</p><p>PEREZ ADDED THAT IN RECENT DAYS "THERE HAVE BEEN RUMORS THAT MEMBERS OF THE U.S. ARMED FORCES HAVE COME TO BOLIVIA WITH PLANS TO FIGHT DRUG TRAFFICKING. WE HAVE TO REJECT THOSE RUMORS."</p><p>HE SAID THAT THIS CRIME IS IN NO WAY LINKED TO THE PRESENCE OF "SHINING PATH" TERRORISTS IN BOLIVIA. HE SAID: "IF THIS TERRORIST GROUP IS OPERATING IN BOLIVIA, IT SHOULD HAVE CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CRIME, LIKE THE NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (ELN) DID IN THE 1960'S WHEN THEY REVEALED THAT THEY CARRIED OUT TERRORIST ACTIVITIES ABROAD."</p><p>PEREZ STATED THAT MURDER OF THE U.S. MORMON MISSIONARIES SHOULD BE SERIUSLY ANALYZED SO THAT A RELIABLE REPORT IS RELEASED.</p></body></html>