<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0526"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0526"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0526</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0526 (UMASS)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 27 SEP 89 (RADIO SANDINO) -- [TEXT] NATIONAL LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY PRESIDENT COMMANDER CARLOS NUNEZ HAS STATED THAT THE 39 FORMER GN [NATIONAL GUARD] MEMBERS NOW IN JAIL WILL NOT BE RELEASED UNTIL THE COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY FORCES IN HONDURAS ARE DEMOBILIZED. COMMANDER NUNEZ DEMANDED THAT THE CONTRAS RELEASE MORE THAN 1,000 NICARAGUANS THEY HAVE KIDNAPPED AND STOP MURDERING CIVILIANS. HE SAID THAT THE 39 FORMER GN MEMBERS WILL BE RELEASED WHEN THE COUNTERREVOLUTION IS DEMOBILIZED IN HONDURAS, AS WAS AGREED WITH THE 21 NICARAGUAN POLITICAL PARTIES.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [NUNEZ] THE 39 FORMER SOMOZIST ARMY MEMBERS, WHO ARE SO STRONGLY DEFENDED BY MORE THAN ONE REPRESENTATIVE WHO ALLEGE QUOTE HUMANITARIAN UNQUOTE REASONS, ARE GOING TO STAY IN PRISON AND WILL NOT BE INCLUDED IN THE LIST [PARDON LIST THAT INCLUDES 457 PRISONERS APPROVED BY THE NICARAGUA LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY ON 26 SEPTEMBER]. LIKEWISE, THE REST OF THE CONTRA PRISONERS, WHO ARE NOT ON THIS LIST, WILL ALSO REMAIN IN PRISON. THEY WILL REMAIN THERE UNTIL WE HAVE HAVE CLEAR, DEFINITE INDICATIONS FROM THE U.S. GOVERNMENT AND THE MERCENARIES THAT THEY ARE GOING TO COMPLY WITH AGREEMENTS. THEY WILL STAY IN PRISON UNTIL WE CAN CLEARLY SEE THE DEMOBILIZATION OF THE CONTRAS AND THEIR WILLINGNESS TO ENTER INTO THE COUNTRY'S POLITICAL ACTIVITY. WE ARE NOT GOING TO ALLOW THE WORD RECONCILIATION TO BE CHANGED INTO DEMAGOGUERY. THIS WORD HAS REAL MEANING. WE ARE WILLING TO COMPLY WITH AGREEMENTS AND HAVE EVIDENCED OUR WILLINGNESS WITH GESTURES OF GENEROSITY. WE ARE NOT ASKING THE CONTRAS TO BE GENEROUS. WE ARE ASKING THE CONTRAS TO COMPLY WITH THE TELA AGREEMENTS SIGNED IN HONDURAS. WE ARE ALSO ASKING FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE AGREEMENTS SIGNED WITH THE POLITICAL PARTIES DURING THE NATIONAL DIALOGUE, THAT THE PERSONS WHO HAVE BEEN KIDANAPPED BY THE CONTRAS BE RETURNED, AND THAT THEY STOP THEIR ATTACKS AND MURDERS THAT EVEN NOW -- ALTHOUGH SOME POLITICIANS ARE BLIND TO THIS -- CONTINUE. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>