<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0256"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0256"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0256</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0256 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 20 JUN 89 (EMISORAS CARACOL NETWORK) -- [TEXT] THE DAMAGE CAUSED BY THE LATEST TERRORIST ATTACKS AGAINST THE COUNTRY'S OIL PIPELINE HAS SO FAR BEEN ESTIMATED AT ALMOST 75 BILLION PESOS. ACCORDING TO ECOPETROL [COLOMBIAN PETROLEUM ENTERPRISE], THERE HAVE BEEN FOUR DYNAMITE ATTACKS ON THE PIPELINE IN THE LAST 72 HOURS. BECAUSE OF THE ATTACKS, COLOMBIA WILL HAVE TO ABSTAIN FROM MARKETING CRUDE OIL ABROAD FOR 3 WEEKS, THUS LOSING $150 MILLION. THE DAMAGE CAUSED TO THE COVENAS PLANT AMOUNTS TO $7 MILLION; ANOTHER $7 MILLION WILL HAVE TO BE SPENT ON REPAIRS.</p><p>ECOPETROL PRESIDENT ANDRES RESTREPO LONDONO SAID THAT THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE WILL FEEL THE IMPACT OF THESE ATTACKS. ALREADY THE ROYALTIES GIVEN TO THE MUNICIPALITIES HAVE BEEN SUSPENDED, AND AN INCREASE IN FUEL PRICES WILL BE NECESSARY, ACCORDING TO THE FIRST SPECIAL MEETING OF THE COUNTRY'S PETROLEUM ENTERPRISE AUTHORITIES.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE ARMY HAS INCREASED ITS COUNTEROFFENSIVE AGAINST ELN [ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION] GUERRILLAS, WHICH HAVE CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACKS ON THE OIL PIPELINE, EXERTING PRESSURE TO MODIFY THE OIL POLICY. THE LATEST ATTACK ON THE PIPELINE OCCURRED AT THE LISAMA INSTALLATIONS, LOCATED BETWEEN BARRANCABERMEJA AND BUCARAMANGA. ELN GUERRILLAS ATTACKED THESE INSTALLLATIONS, WHICH ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR PRODUCING GAS AND PETROLEUM. THE GUERRILLAS CUT 80 PERCENT OF THE CABLES ATTACHED TO THE MOTORS WHICH EXTRACT FUEL.</p><p>A DYNAMITE CHARGE WAS ALSO PLACED ON THE PIPELINE AT KM-28 IN CANO LIMON-COVENAS, IN THE AREA OF CARMEN, NEAR THE TONCHALA RIVER, IN NORTHERN SANTANDER. NO FUEL, HOWEVER, WAS LOST. THE ATTACKS HAVE NOW EXTENDED TO HUILA DEPARTMENT FOR THE FIRST TIME, DAMAGING FUEL INSTALLATIONS. HERE THE OIL SPILL WAS STOPPED BY CLOSING DOWN THE INSTALLATIONS.</p><p>FURTHERMORE, NINE GUERRILLAS HAVE BEEN KILLED, EIGHT MORE HAVE BEEN CAPTURED, AND AN ELN TRAINING CENTER HAS BEEN DISMANTLED. THIS IS THE RESULT OF THE ARMY'S FIRST COUNTERINSURGENCY ACTIONS AGAINST THOSE DETERMINED TO DO AWAY WITH THE NATION'S RESOURCES BY ATTACKING THE CANO LIMON-COVENAS PIPELINE. MILITARY AUTHORITIES HAVE REPORTED THAT NEAR SERRANIA DE PERIJA, CESAR DEPARTMENT, THE 2D BRIGADE'S (LA POPA) BATTALION TROOPS CLASHED WITH ELN GUERRILLAS. THE CLASH RESULTED IN THE DEATH OF SIX GUERRILLAS AND THE CONFISCATION OF A GREAT AMOUNT OF WAR MATERIEL.</p><p>IN ADDITION, [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE ARMY DISMANTLED AN ELN URBAN NETWORK, CAPTURING EIGHT OF ITS MEMBERS. MEANWHILE, THE 14TH BRIGADE'S (LUCIANO DE LURIA) BATTALION TROOPS KILLED JOSE ANTONIO VELASCO, A FARC [REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA] LEADER. FINALLY, 5TH BRIGADE TROOPS ARE CONTINUING THEIR ACTIONS IN THE CACATUMBO AREA, WHERE THE ELN HAS TAKEN REFUGE. THE ELN, COMMANDED BY SPANISH PRIEST MANUEL PEREZ, HAS BASED ITS OPERATIONS IN EASTERN COLOMBIA.</p></body></html>