<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0376"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0376"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0376</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0376 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 25 AUG 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] THE SINISTER EXTRADITABLES GROUP TODAY THREATENED TO KILL 10 JUDGES FOR EVERY COLOMBIAN WHO IS EXTRADITED TO THE UNITED STATES. THIS IS A WARNING TO THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO WHO HAS ANNOUNCED THAT INDIVIDUALS LINKED TO DRUG TRAFFICKING CAN BE EXTRADITED.</p><p>THE CLANDESTINE GROUP, WHICH EARLY THIS MORNING SET FIRE TO THE LLANO GRANDE COUNTRY CLUB IN RIONEGRO MUNICIPALITY, 40 KM NORTH OF MEDELLIN, SENT A LETTER TODAY TO OMAR GARCES, FIRST SUPERIOR COURT JUDGE OF CALI, INFORMING HIM OF THE THREAT TO KILL 10 JUDGES FOR EVERY PERSON EXTRADITED.</p><p>GARCES, WHO IS ALSO PRESIDENT OF THE ASSOCIATION OF JUDICIAL OFFICIALS IN VALLE DEL CAUCA DEPARTMENT, SAID THAT THE EXTRADITABLES SENT SEVERAL MESSAGES WITH THE THREAT TO VARIOUS JUDICIAL OFFICES IN THAT AREA OF THE COUNTRY, LOCATED 500 KM FROM BOGOTA.</p><p>AS A RESULT OF THE EXTRADITABLES' THREAT, THE JUDGES ARE HOLDING A MEETING TO WEIGH THE SITUATION AND DETERMINE THE VERACITY OF THE WARNING. HOWEVER, THEY DECIDED THEY WILL NOT STOP WORKING.</p><p>"THE TIME HAS COME TO UNITE AROUND THE COUNTRY'S FLAG TO RECOVER COLOMBIA'S DIGNITY AND TO PREVENT ITS BAD SONS FROM CONTINUING TO SHAME IT BEFORE THE WORLD," JUDGE GARCES SAID. HE ALSO ASKED FOR PROTECTION FOR HIMSELF AND THE OTHER JUDGES IN THAT AREA OF THE COUNTRY.</p></body></html>