<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0819"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0819"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0819</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0819 (PRC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 19 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [STATEMENT] [GENERAL RAFAEL HUMBERTO LARIOS, SALVADORAN DEFENSE AND PUBLIC SECURITY MINISTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THIS IS OUR RESPONSIBILITY, THIS IS OUR MISSION, AND WE ARE WILLING TO GIVE OUR LIVES IN SACRIFICE, AS HAS BEEN PROVEN BY THE MANY HEROIC SOLDIERS WHO ARE DYING IN THIS STRUGGLE TO DEFEND JUSTICE, PEACE, DEMOCRACY, AND THE WELL-BEING OF THESE PEOPLE WHOM WE LOVE SO MUCH, THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>ARMED FORCES, DO NOT FEAR THE ENEMY. GO FORWARD WITH YOUR RESOLVE AND SPIRIT. OUR FAITH IN GOD AND OUR CHRISTIAN PRINCIPLES GIVE US THE TRUTH AND THE STRENGTH TO CONTINUE DESTROYING THE FORCES THAT ARE TRYING TO WIPE OUT OUR HISTORY, TRADITION, VALUES, AND CITIZENS' PRINCIPLES.</p><p>FOR EACH OFFICER AND SOLDIER LOST IN THE STRUGGLE, THERE IS NO OTHER MISSION BUT TO DEFEAT THE ENEMY, TO DESTROY THE TERRORISTS' PLANS, AND TO ONCE AND FOR ALL WIPE OUT THIS MANEUVER, THIS ATTEMPT TO DESTROY THE INSTITUTIONALITY OF EL SALVADOR.</p><p>THIS IS A TIMELY OCCASION, SALVADORAN PEOPLE, TO SAY THAT THE ARMED FORCES AS AN INSTITUTION AT SOCIETY'S SERVICE DEEPLY REGRET AND HAVE BEEN DISMAYED BY THE INCIDENTS AT THE JOSE SIMEON CANAS CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY. WE CONDEMN, POINT AT, AND DEEPLY REJECT THESE IRRATIONAL AND VIOLENT ACTIONS, WHICH ARE AIMED AGAINST SALVADORAN INTELLECTUALS. WE, LIKE THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, ALSO POINT TO, QUESTION, AND TOTALLY REJECT THESE ACTIONS WHICH ONLY BRING MOURNING AND GRIEF AND, FURTHERMORE -- AS THE TERRORIST FORCES HAVE DONE ON OTHER OCCASIONS -- CREATE CONFUSION, DECEIT, AND FURTHER TORMENT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WHO HAVE ALREADY SUFFERED SO MUCH.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES CONVEY THEIR DEEPEST CONDOLENCES TO THE NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL JESUIT COMMUNITY, AND WE ARE WILLING -- AS THE GOVERNMENT HAS POINTED OUT -- TO CARRY OUT THOROUGH INVESTIGATIONS, SO THAT SOONER OR LATER WE WILL FIND THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS SITUATION AND APPLY TO THEM THE PUNISHMENT THEY DESERVE FOR SUCH IRRATIONAL, VIOLENT ACTIONS THAT ONLY BRING GRIEF, TEARS, AND BLOOD TO OUR SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE, I BELIEVE THE TIME HAS COME TO FURTHER DEMONSTRATE OUR STOICISM. I BELIEVE THIS IS THE TIME TO DEFINE, IN A TRUE CITIZEN'S SPIRIT, OUR RESOLVE TO DEFEAT, OUR RESOLVE TO WIN. WITHIN A SHORT WHILE, A FEW HOURS, OR A FEW DAYS, WE WILL JOIN THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE TO CELEBRATE THE VICTORY OF DEMOCRACY, JUSTICE, AND PEACE OVER THE IRRATIONAL VIOLENCE UNLEASHED BY THE FMLN.</p><p>THIS MAY ALSO BE A TIMELY OPPORTUNITY TO POINT TO THE TERRORIST FORCES THAT ARE STILL TRYING TO HURT OUR CIVILIAN POPULATION, TO TELL THEM THAT THEIR CAUSE, THE CAUSE OF VIOLENCE, IRRATIONALITY, AND DISRESPECT FOR THE PEOPLE'S WILL, IS LOST. TO THIS EFFECT, THE ARMED FORCES ARE URGING THE TERRORIST FORCES TO SURRENDER, TO LAY DOWN THEIR WEAPONS, TO STOP THE VIOLENCE, AND TO JOIN CIVILIAN LIFE IN SOCIETY, IN PEACE AND HARMONY, SO THAT WE ALSO -- AS THE ARMED FORCES AND AS AN INSTITUTION -- CAN RESPECT THEIR LIVES AND INCORPORATE THEM INTO SOCIETY, AND SO THAT TOGETHER -- TODAY, TOMORROW, AND ALWAYS -- WE CAN BUILD A COUNTRY FULL OF LOVE, WELL- BEING, PEACE, AND FAITH IN GOD.</p></body></html>