<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0378"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0378"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0378</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0378 (BBN)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (TCS TELEVISION) -- [INTERVIEW WITH CRISTIANI BY KOBERG] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [CRISTIANI] WHEN MUCH TERRORIST VIOLENCE IS CREATED AND WHEN MUCH STREET VIOLENCE IS CREATED, EVERYONE IS ADVERSELY AFFECTED; WE BELIEVE THE ARMED FORCES HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO PREVENT THIS FROM HAPPENING. WE BELIEVE THAT WHEN IT PREVENTS VIOLENCE, IT IS DOING A MORE PROFESSIONAL JOB THAN IF IT ALLOWED IT TO TAKE PLACE, BECAUSE ONCE THE VIOLENCE GETS STARTED, THE CONSEQUENCES OF THEIR ACTIONS MAY BE A LOT MORE UNFORTUNATE. WE BELIEVE THAT THE POLICY OF TRYING TO PREVENT VIOLENT PLANS BEFORE THEY ARE CARRIED OUT IS SOMETHING THAT HAS PRODUCED GOOD RESULTS.</p><p>OF COURSE, THE PEOPLE SUSPECTED BY THE ARMED FORCES OF SUPPORTING THE FMLN PLANS ARE ARRESTED AND TURNED OVER TO THE JUDGE ONCE THE EVIDENCE IS GATHERED. I CAN TELL YOU THAT THIS IS VERY DIFFICULT. UNFORTUNATELY MANY OF THOSE WHO ARE ARRESTED ARE LATER RELEASED. MANY OF THEM TURN OUT TO BE INNOCENT BECAUSE SUSPICIONS MAY TURN OUT TO BE FALSE AND THE JUDGE IS THERE TO PREVENT MISTAKES FROM BEING COMMITTED. HOWEVER, THE ARMED FORCES ARE ACTING WITHIN A LEGAL FRAMEWORK.</p><p>THERE ARE CASES SUCH AS MR MASARIEGO. WHEN HE WAS RELEASED, IT WAS CONFIRMED THAT THERE WAS ABSOLUTELY NOTHING WRONG WITH HIM, AND WE HAVE HERE DOCUMENTS PROVING THAT. HOWEVER, HE TOURED THE UNITED STATES TO SHOW OFF HIS BURNT KNEE AND TO SAY THAT HE HAD BEEN TORTURED HERE IN EL SALVADOR. IT HAD BEEN PROVEN THAT THERE WAS ABSOLUTELY NOTHING WRONG WITH HIM WHEN HE WAS RELEASED. THE LEFT WANTS TO DISCREDIT THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES ABROAD. HOWEVER, I DO NO BELIEVE THE LEFT HAS BEEN SUCCESSFUL.</p><p>[KOBERG] MR PRESIDENT, AN ANALYST WHO MET WITH US A SHORT TIME AGO GAVE HIS OPINION ON THE POSSIBILITY OF A DIALOGUE AND ITS RESULTS. HE WAS NOT VERY OPTIMISTIC AND HE SAID THAT THERE WERE SEVERAL POINTS THAT COULD BECOME OBSTACLES TO THE DIALOGUE. ONE OF THEM WAS THE ECONOMIC MEASURES. HE SAID THAT THE FMLN COULD NOT HOLD NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE GOVERNMENT AS LONG AS THE GOVERNMENT MAINTAINED THE ECONOMIC MEASURES IT WAS IMPLEMENTING. WE HAVE LEARNED FROM THE FMLN COMMUNIQUES, WHICH ALWAYS TALK ABOUT THE NEED TO KEEP IMPLEMENTING THE AGRARIAN REFORM PROCESS AND OTHER SERIES OF POINTS CONCERNING THE ECONOMIC MEASURES. I WOULD LIKE TO ASK YOU, WITHIN THIS FRAMEWORK, WHAT CAN THE GOVERNMENT NEGOTIATE OR WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT UNDERSTAND BY NEGOTIATION? COULD THERE BE POSSIBLE NEGOTIATION ON THE ECONOMIC POLICY?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] I BELIEVE THE WORD NEGOTIATION HERE IN OUR COUNTRY NO LONGER HAS THAT GENERIC MEANING GIVEN BY THE DICTIONARY. THIS WORD HAS BEEN MANIPULATED BY LEFTIST FORCES IN THE SENSE THAT TO NEGOTIATE IS TO ACCEPT WHAT THE FMLN WANTS. ACCORDING TO THE LEFT, THAT IS WHAT NEGOTIATING MEANS. I BELIEVE THE WORD NEGOTIATION HAS A GENERIC MEANING. A NEGOTIATION IS TO TRY TO FIND JOINT AGREEMENTS TO SOLVE A PROBLEM AND THAT IS WHAT WE HAVE BEEN PROPOSING. WE HAVE SOUGHT AGREEMENTS ON THE LARGEST NUMBER OF POINTS POSSIBLE. LOGICALLY, NOT ALL POINTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BY THE OTHER SIDE AND WE BELIEVE THE FMLN IS MAKING A MISTAKE WHEN IT THINKS IT WILL NEGOTIATE ITS ECONOMIC, POLITICAL, OR SOCIAL PLATFORM WITH THE GOVERNMENT. THE FMLN MUST UNDERSTAND THAT THEY HAVE TO NEGOTIATE THEIR PLANS FOR THE COUNTRY WITH THE PEOPLE. THAT IS DONE BY POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS AND BY SHOWING THEIR PROPOSALS TO THE PUBLIC. IF THE PEOPLE ARE CONVINCED THAT THEIR PROPOSALS ARE BEST, THEY WILL GET THE VOTES AND THEY WILL HAVE THE RIGHT TO IMPLEMENT THEIR PROGRAMS AND THEIR POLITICAL, ECONOMIC, AND SOCIAL PROGRAMS.</p><p>IN THIS CASE, UNFORTUNATELY THEY DID NOT PARTICIPATE; IT WAS OUR PARTY PLATFORM THAT WAS CHOSEN BY THE PEOPLE. THIS GIVES THE GOVERNMENT THE RIGHT TO IMPLEMENT WHAT THE MAJORITY OF THE PEOPLE ASK OF THEM.</p><p>WE DO NOT THINK THE FMLN SHOULD OPPOSE THIS OFFERING. THE FMLN REFUSES TO TALK WITH THE GOVERNMENT AND KEEPS LOOKING FOR EXCUSES AND SETTING CONDITIONS, SUCH AS DEMANDING THAT THE GOVERNMENT DECLARE ITSELF TEMPORARY BEFORE ANY TALKS ARE CONSIDERED. THEY KNOW THEY ARE ASKING THE IMPOSSIBLE. THEIR TRUE PURPOSE IS TO REFUSE TO TALK SERIOUSLY, WHICH THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WANTS THEM TO DO. LORENA, I DO NOT THINK WE SHOULD CONFUSE THE VARIOUS FACTORS INVOLVED. HOLDING A DIALOGUE IS NOT EASY, AS POINTED OUT BY THIS ANALYST, WHOSE NAME I DO NOT KNOW. THE SITUATION IS NOT EASY TO RESOLVE. THIS PROCESS COULD WELL LAST MANY MONTHS OR EVEN YEARS. IT IS NECESSRY TO START NOW WITH A DIALOGUE IN WHICH BOTH SIDES BEGIN TO DISCUSS, NOT WHAT THEY CANNOT AGREE ON, BUT WHAT WE CAN AGREE ON. WE SHOULD BEGIN BY TRYING TO ELIMINATE THE VIOLENCE THAT PREVAILS IN THE COUNTRY. IF THEY FIND THEY CANNOT AGREE ON SOME OF THE GOVERNMENT PROPOSALS, THE GOVERNMENT SHOULD ALSO CONSIDER AN ALTERNATIVE STANCE. THE FMLN KEEPS SAYING THAT THERE ARE NO PROPER CONDITIONS FOR TALKING. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>