<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0976"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0976"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0976</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0976 (SRI)</p><p>BOGOTA, 12 DEC 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] A COLOMBIAN OFFICIAL FROM THE INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK [IDB] AND A PROSECUTOR FROM THE MEDELLIN HIGHER COURT WERE ASSASSINATED IN THE LAST FEW HOURS NEAR THIS NORTHWESTERN CITY, THE SECOND LARGEST IN COLOMBIA, POLICE SPOKESMEN HAVE REPORTED.</p><p>EDGAR HENAO, 55, CIVIL ENGINEER, ECONOMIST, AND TOP EXECUTIVE FROM THE INTERNATIONAL CREDIT ORGANIZATION, WAS SHOT SEVERAL TIMES BY SOME UNIDENTIFIED PEOPLE AT HIS FARM CALLED EL LIMON, VENECIA MUNICIPALITY, 61 KM SOUTHWEST OF MEDELLIN.</p><p>HENAO, WHO HAS BEEN WORKING FOR THE IDB FOR 13 YEARS, HAD ARRIVED IN COLOMBIA ON 7 DECEMBER AND WAS PREPARING TO LEAVE FOR JAMAICA, THE SOURCES ADDED.</p><p>MOREOVER, 4TH PROSECUTOR GABRIEL JAIME VELEZ WAS ATTACKED IN ENVIGADO, 10 KM FROM MEDELLIN, BY AN INDIVIDUAL WHO FIRED 13 SHOTS KILLING HIM INSTANTLY AS HE WAS WALKING HOME.</p><p>VELEZ, 38, WHO WAS HANDLING SEVERAL KIDNAPPING AND DRUG TRAFFICKING CASES, HAD BEING THREATENED, BUT HE HAD NO BODYGUARDS, RELATIVES OF THE VICTIM SAID.</p><p>DURING THE LAST 6 MONTHS, FIVE JUDGES AND MAGISTRATES HAVE BEEN KILLED BY HIRED ASSASSINS IN MEDELLIN.</p><p>ALSO TODAY IN BUENAVENTURA, THE MAJOR COLOMBIAN PORT ON THE PACIFIC COAST, JUDGE SOFIA DE ROLDAN WAS SHOT TO DEATH BY HIRED ASSASSINS. SHE WAS PREPARING FOR A NEW JOB IN CALI, IN WESTERN COLOMBIA.</p></body></html>