<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0429"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0429"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0429</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0429 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 5 SEP 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AFFIRMED TODAY THAT MANY OF THE SALVADORAN REFUGEES IN HONDURAS ARE LINKED TO THE GUERRILLAS BUT THAT HE WILL MAKE A "GOOD WILL" GESTURE TO HAVE APPROXIMATELY 3,800 OF THEM REPATRIATED.</p><p>"THE GOVERNMENT IS MAKING A GOOD WILL GESTURE BY ACCEPTING THE REPATRIATION OF THOUSANDS OF SALVADORANS WHILE KNOWING THAT MANY OF THEM ARE RELATIVES OF CRIMINAL TERRORISTS (GUERRILLAS), SAID SALVADORAN VICE PRESIDENT AND INTERIOR MINISTER FRANCISCO MERINO.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENTS OF EL SALVADOR AND HONDURAS AND THE UN HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES ARE PREPARING THE RETURN OF THESE SALVADORANS WHO FLED TO HONDURAS AT THE BEGINNING OF THIS DECADE TO ESCAPE FROM THE ARMED CONFLICT.</p><p>MERINO STATED: "WE WANT THEM TO UNDERSTAND THAT IF AT ANY GIVEN MOMENT THERE WAS A JUSTIFICATION FOR RESORTING TO VIOLENCE, NOW, 10 YEARS LATER, THERE IS NO JUSTIFICATION AT ALL AND THE MOMENT HAS COME FOR BEGINNING A NORMAL LIFE."</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE VICE PRESIDENT, THE FACT THAT THERE ARE NO MALES AMONG THESE REFUGEES IS EVIDENCE THAT THEY HAVE LINKS WITH THE GUERRILLAS.</p><p>ALTHOUGH WE DID NOT FIND MEN OF OVER 13 YEARS OF AGE, THERE WERE MANY PREGNANT WOMEN," MERINO TOLD THE PRESS.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT SELECTED SETTLEMENT AREAS FOR THE REPATRIATED, WHERE IT WILL GIVE THEM MEDICAL AND EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE AND A FUNCTIONING INFRASTRUCTURE.</p><p>FOR THEIR PART, THE REFUGEES HAVE ASKED TO BE ALLOWED TO RETURN TO THEIR PLACES OF ORIGIN, IN WAR-TORN AREAS IN THE NORTHERN PART OF CHALATENANGO, SAN MIGUEL, AND MORAZAN DEPARTMENTS, OR IN LA UNION DEPARTMENT.</p><p>"TO SEND THEM THERE," MERINO SAID, "WOULD BE TO CONDEMN THEM TO PERMANENT UNDERDEVELOPMENT. THEY WANT TO RETURN TO PLACES THAT DO NOT PROVIDE WHAT IS NEEDED FOR DEVELOPMENT OR FOR A NORMAL LIFE."</p><p>THE CHRISTIAN COMMITTEE FOR DISPLACED SALVADORANS, WHICH CLAIMS TO REPRESENT THE REFUGEES, HAS ACCUSED THE GOVERNMENT OF WANTING TO SEND THE REPATRIATED TO "CONCENTRATION CAMPS GUARDED BY THE ARMED FORCES."</p></body></html>