<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1116"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1116"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1116</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1116 (UNISYS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 16 FEB 90 (DPA) -- [TEXT] MILITARY AND CIVILIAN SOURCES HAVE REPORTED THAT EARLY THIS MORNING THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, FMLN, SET ON FIRE TWO COTTON PROCESSING PLANTS IN SAN MIGUEL, SOME 142 KM EAST OF SAN SALVADOR, CAUSING GREAT PROPERTY DAMAGE, ACCORDING TO MILITARY AND CIVILIAN SOURCES.</p><p>ACCORDING TO REPORTS, FMLN MEMBERS ATTACKED THE "CANESSA" AND "EL OBRAJUELO" COTTON PLANTS IN SAN MIGUEL DEPARTMENT, DESTROYING HEAVY EQUIPMENT, WAREHOUSES WHERE HUNDREDS OF QUINTALES OF COTTON WERE STORED, AND THE MAIN BUILDINGS. FORTUNATELY, NO ONE WAS HURT.</p><p>SPOKESMEN REPRESENTING THE OWNERS REPORTED MUCH PROPERTY DAMAGE AND NOTED THAT THE INCIDENT IS PART OF THE FMLN'S CAMPAIGN OF SABOTAGE AGAINST THE ECONOMY.</p><p>HEAVY CLASHES WERE ALSO REPORTED IN MORAZAN DEPARTMENT, IN THE COUNTRY'S NORTHEASTERN REGION, DURING WHICH AT LEAST TWO SOLDIERS WERE KILLED. HOWEVER, THE ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE HAS NOT REPORTED THE INCIDENTS THAT OCCURRED LAST NIGHT AND EARLY THIS MORNING.</p><p>SEVERAL TOWNS IN EASTERN EL SALVADOR ARE WITHOUT POWER SINCE 14 FEBRUARY DUE TO SABOTAGE ACTIONS. ELECTRICITY IS ALSO BEING RATIONED IN VARIOUS SECTORS OF SAN SALVADOR, FOLLOWING THE DESTRUCTION OF FIVE HIGH TENSION LINES, ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL SOURCES.</p><p>HOWEVER, BOMB ATTACKS ON SHOPPING CENTERS IN SAN SALVADOR ARE LESS FREQUENT. RECENT ATTACKS HAD CAUSED GREAT CONCERN AND PROMPTED A STRONG PROTEST FROM THE CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRIES OF EL SALVADOR, WHICH DEMANDED AN END TO THE WAVE OF ATTACKS AGAINST NONMILITARY TARGETS.</p></body></html>