<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0058"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0058"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-05-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0058</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0058 (NOSC)</p><p>LIMA, 20 MAY 88 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THREE WOMEN SURVIVORS HAVE REPORTED TO THE COURTS IN THE PERUVIAN CITY OF AYACUCHO REGARDING THE MASSACRE--FOR WHICH THEY HOLD THE ARMY RESPONSIBLE--OF NEARLY 80 PEOPLE, INCLUDING MISSING PEOPLE, IN THE TOWN OF CAYARA.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE REPORT, SOLDIERS WITH THEIR FACES PAINTED BLACK ARRIVED IN CAYARA LAST SATURDAY AND "BROKE DOWN DOORS, LOOTED STORES, AND BURNED SEVERAL HOUSES."</p><p>THE MEN OF CAYARA WERE ROUNDED UP AT THE TOWN CHURCH. THE REPORT ADDED: "THERE WAS NOTHING WE COULD DO. WE HEARD HORRIBLE GROANS OF PAIN AND DESPERATION. THUS, IT CAN BE DEDUCED THAT THEY WERE KILLED AFTER BEING MERCILESSLY TORTURED."</p><p>LATER, THE SOLDIERS ROUNDED UP PEASANTS FROM THE CAYARA AREA "AND, AFTER FORCING THE MEN AND WOMEN TO LIE PRONE IN SEPARATE ROWS, KILLED THE MEN ONE BY ONE."</p><p>THE SOLDIERS USED MACHETES, AXES, AND FIREARMS FOR THE KILLINGS.</p><p>THE THREE WOMEN SUPPLIED A LIST OF 57 PEOPLE WHO WERE KILLED IN THE MASSACRE AND 18 WHO ARE MISSING, INCLUDING A 20-YEAR-OLD NURSE.</p><p>A PICTURE OF THIS NURSE, MARTHA CRISOSTOMO GARCIA, APPEARS ON THE FRONT PAGE OF TODAY'S LA REPUBLICA, WITH A REQUEST FOR "SOMEONE TO PROVIDE INFORMATION ON HER."</p><p>CAYARA IS A TOWN IN AYACUCHO DEPARTMENT, IN SOUTHERN PERU. IT WAS THE BIRTHPLACE OF THE ARMED ACTIVITIES OF THE MAOIST SHINING PATH GUERRILLAS IN 1980. CAYARA IS 80 KM FROM ACCOMARCA, WHERE AN ARMY PATROL REPORTEDLY KILLED 69 PEASANTS, INCLUDING MEN, WOMEN, AND CHILDREN, AND BURNED THEIR HOMES IN 1985.</p><p>LAST FRIDAY, THE SHINING PATH AMBUSHED AN ARMY PATROL, KILLING 1 OFFICER AND 3 NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICERS AND INJURING 15 SOLDIERS, 4 OF THEM SERIOUSLY. SIX SHINING PATH TERRORISTS WERE ALSO KILLED.</p><p>AN OFFICIAL ARMY COMMUNIQUE REPORTED THAT THE SHINING PATH TERRORISTS ESCAPED TOWARD CAYARA, WHICH, ACCORDING TO THIS COMMUNIQUE, HAD BEEN ABANDONED, THAT ONLY SOME OLD PEOPLE AND CHILDREN LIVED IN CAYARA, AND THAT FOUR BODIES WERE FOUND IN THE CHURCH.</p><p>JAVIER DIEZ CANSECO, A LEFTIST SENATOR, SAID THE MASSACRE WAS IN REPRISAL FOR LAST FRIDAY'S AMBUSH.</p><p>THE OPPOSITION HAS ASKED THAT AN INVESTIGATING COMMISSION BE FORMED. ALTHOUGH THIS ISSUE HAS BEEN DISCUSSED IN CONGRESS, DEBATE HAS BEEN POSTPONED UNTIL NEXT MONDAY.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT SAID IT DOES NOT OPPOSE THE APPOINTMENT OF A COMMISSION. "HOWEVER, WE CANNOT YIELD TO AN OPPOSITION WHIM," GOVERNMENT-PAY CONGRESSMEN SAID.</p><p>EL NACIONAL HAS PUBLISHED A LIST OF 47 PEOPLE KILLED AND 50 PEOPLE MISSING. THE NEWSPAPER CLAIMS THAT AT LEAST 100 SOLDIERS "SEPARATED THE MEN AND WOMEN AND KILLED THE MEN INSIDE THE CHURCH."</p></body></html>