<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0678"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0678"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0678</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0678 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 NOV 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] ONE OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE ISRAELI AMBASSADOR TO EL SALVADOR WAS SERIOUSLY WOUNDED AND TWO AMBULANCES OF THE SALVADORAN RED CROSS WERE MACHINEGUNNED IN A CROSSFIRE DURING HEAVY CLASHES TONIGHT IN VARIOUS PARTS OF THE CAPITAL.</p><p>DIPLOMATIC SOURCES CONFIRMED TO AFP THAT ONE OF THE ISRAELI AMBASSADOR'S DAUGHTERS WAS SHOT TWICE IN HER CHEST DURING A SHOOTOUT BETWEEN URBAN GUERRILLA COMMANDOS AND POLICEMEN AT THE MAQUIISHUAT NEIGHBORHOOD, IN WESTERN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>ACCORDING TO REPORTS, SHE WAS TAKEN TO A HOSPITAL IN THE CAPITAL.</p><p>MEANWHILE, RED CROSS SPOKESMEN REPORTED THAT TWO AMBULANCES OF THAT HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATION WERE HIT BY RIFLE FIRE DURING A CROSSFIRE. ONE OF THE VEHICLES WAS TOTALLY DESTROYED, THE RED CROSS SPOKESMAN ADDED.</p><p>THE CLASHES BEGAN SIMULTANEOUSLY IN VARIOUS PARTS OF SAN SALVADOR AT 2000 LOCAL (0200 GMT). BY MIDNIGHT, RIFLE FIRE AND STRONG EXPLOSIONS COULD STILL BE HEARD. SEVERAL AIR FORCE HELICOPTERS WERE OVERFLYING THE METROPOLITAN AREA.</p><p>THOUSANDS OF PERSONS WHO WERE AT THE INTERNATIONAL FAIR OF EL SALVADOR WILL HAVE TO SAY OVERNIGHT AT THE FAIR GROUNDS IN VIEW OF THE SITUATION PREVAILING TONIGHT IN THIS CAPITAL CITY.</p><p>THE GENERAL STAFF OF THE ARMED FORCES URGS THE PEOPLE TO REFRAIN FROM GOING OUT IN THE STREETS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL SOURCES, THE FOLLOWING ARE AMONG THE TARGETS THAT WERE ATTACKED: THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE, LOCATED IN THE NORTHERN PART OF SAN SALVADOR; THE PUBLIC SECURITY ACADEMY, AND AT LEAST 10 OTHER MILITARY POSITIONS IN SEVERAL POINTS OF THE CAPITAL CITY.</p><p>MILITARY SOURCES CONFIRMED THAT THE ARMY IS CLASHING WITH FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) GUERRILLAS IN SAN MIGUEL AND USULUTAN DEPARTMENTS, IN THE EASTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>LARGE SECTORS OF THE CAPITAL CITY ARE WITHOUT ELECTRICITY AS A RESULT OF THE SABOTAGE ACTIONS CARRIED OUT TONIGHT BY THE REBELS AGAINST THE ELECTRICITY SYSTEM.</p><p>RESIDENTS OF ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD, ONE OF THE MOST DENSELY POPULATED ONES IN SAN SALVADOR, REPORTED THAT CLOSE TO MIDNIGHT, THE GUERRILLAS WERE CONTINUING TO OCCUPY THIS NORTHERN AREA OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES HAVE PLACED ALL RADIO STATIONS IN A NETWORK AND ANNOUNCED SHORTLY BEFORE MIDNIGHT THAT A REPORT ABOUT WHAT IS HAPPENING IN SAN SALVADOR WILL BE ISSUED WITHIN THE NEXT FEW HOURS.</p></body></html>