<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1241"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1241"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1241</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1241 (BOEING)</p><p>BOGOTA, 26 APR 90 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [SPEECH] [GOVERNMENT MINISTER HORACIO SERPA URIBE] [TEXT] GOOD EVENING. WE COLOMBIANS HAD NOT GOTTEN OVER YESTERDAY'S CRUEL ATTACK IN MEDELLIN WHEN WE WERE CONFRONTED WITH ANOTHER DISGRACE THAT TOOK THE LIFE OF PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE CARLOS PIZARRO. IN A MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC, THE GOVERNMENT VOICED ITS DEEP ANGER AND SADNESS OVER THIS CRIMINAL ATTACK AND IT RATIFIED ITS DETERMINATION TO CONTINUE TO STRUGGLE WITHOUT DISMAY AGAINST ALL FORMS OF CRIMES AND THE CRIMINALS WHO ARE SO INFAMOUSLY ATTACKING PEACE AND DEMOCRACY.</p><p>THIS IS NO TIME TO ABANDON ANY ATTITUDE THAT IS DEEMED ADVISABLE FOR THE NATION. IN THE FACE OF THE FRATRICIDAL AND ANTI-PATRIOTIC VIOLENCE, WE MUST ANSWER WITH ACTIONS OF UNDERSTANDING AND CONCILIATION, WITH DECISIONS THAT WILL DISMANTLE THE BANDS OF CRIMINALS WHO ARE DOING SUCH SERIOUS HARM TO THE PEOPLE AND WITH THE DETERMINATION THAT WILL RENEW FAITH IN DEMOCRATIC PRINCIPLES AND IN THE PURPOSE TO ACHIEVE THE BEST LEVELS OF COEXISTENCE. THE GOVERNMENT IS DETERMINED TO DO THAT.</p><p>HOWEVER, THIS RESPONSIBILITY LIES WITH ALL COLOMBIANS OF GOODWILL. FROM EACH OF OUR FELLOW COUNTRYMEN, WE DEMAND POSITIVE ACTIONS AND A GREAT SOLIDARITY WITH THOSE WHO HAVE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF SAFEGUARDING THE CITIZENS' SECURITY THROUGHOUT THE NATION. THE PEACE, UNDERSTANDING, AND CONCILIATION TO WHICH CARLOS PIZARRO WAS COMMITTED SHOULD CONTINUE TO BE THE BASIC GOALS OF THE COUNTRY AND OF ITS CITIZENS.</p><p>ALL THE NECESSARY MEASURES THAT WILL LEAD TO CLARIFYING THAT TREACHEROUS CRIME ARE BEING TAKEN TO DETERMINE WHO IS RESPONSIBLE AND THEN PUNISH THEM. TO THIS EFFECT, THE GOVERNMENT'S ACTION WILL BE VERY SEVERE, AND THE INVESTIGATING AUTHORITIES ARE ALREADY BEING PROVIDED VERY AMPLE COOPERATION.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT MAINTAINS DIRECT COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE 19 APRIL MOVEMENT [M-19] LEADERS, AND IT HAS BEEN ATTENTIVE TO ITS DEMANDS, CHARGES, AND CONCERNS. THERE IS A MARKED INTEREST BECAUSE THERE CONTINUES TO BE DIRECT RELATIONS WITH ALL POLITICAL PARTIES, THE VARIOUS POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ASSOCIATIONS, AND THE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES CONCERNING THE IMPLEMENTATION AND EFFECTIVENESS OF SECURITY AND INDISPENSABLE GUARANTEES SO THAT WE WILL HOLD THE ELECTIONS ON 27 MAY, AS THE PEOPLE WANT.</p><p>NATIONAL COEXISTENCE, TOGETHER WITH THE CITIZENS' DEMANDS FOR REFORMS, WILL CONTINUE TO BE A BASIC GOAL OF THE GOVERNMENT OF DR. VIRGILIO BARCO, WHO WILL TOMORROW ADDRESS THE COLOMBIANS. M-19 HAS ASKED THE GOVERNMENT TO ALLOW IT TO MAKE PUBLIC ITS FEELINGS AND OPINIONS IN THE FACE OF THIS GREAT TRAGEDY.</p><p>THROUGH ME, AND ACCORDING TO THE PROVISIONS OF LAW 42 OF 1985, THE GOVERNMENT HAS REQUESTED THIS AIR TIME SO THAT ANTONIO NAVARRO WOLFF, SPOKESMAN OF THE POLITICAL PARTY WHOSE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE WAS BRUTALLY MURDERED TODAY, WILL BE ABLE TO FREELY EXPRESS HIS IDEAS.</p><p>THOSE WHO SEEK TO EXCLUDE FROM THE ELECTORAL PROCESS A POLITICAL PARTY -- REGARDLESS OF WHICH ONE IT MAY BE -- WILL NOT ACHIEVE IT, BECAUSE THE GOVERNMENT WILL GUARANTEE THAT ITS VOICE WILL CONTINUE TO BE HEARD. DESPITE OF THE DIFFICULTIES, COLOMBIAN DEMOCRACY WILL WIN.</p></body></html>