<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0244"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0244"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN PEDRO SULA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0244</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0244 (ADS)</p><p>SAN PEDRO SULA, 9 JUN 89 (TIEMPO) -- [EDITORIAL] [TEXT] WHEN WE ASKED THE FOREIGN MINISTRY WHY THE HONDURAN GOVERNMENT HAS NOT PROTESTED THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES ATTACKS ON HONDURAN ARMY SOLDIERS AND A HELICOPTER IN LOS LLANITOS (INTIBUCA), THE ANSWER WAS VERY SIMPLE, BUT IT SHOWS THE IMPORTANCE THAT IS GIVEN TO NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY AND INTEGRITY: THE ARMED FORCES HAVE NOT INFORMED US OF ANYTHING AT ALL -- THEY SAID -- AND WHAT THE MEDIA SAYS IS NOT ACCURATE.</p><p>THE NEWSPAPERS TIEMPO AND LA PRENSA PUBLISHED REPORTS OF THE INCIDENT WITH PHOTOGRAPHS THAT CONFIRMED THE AGGRESSION, THE BOMBING AND SHELLING OF VILLAGES IN OUR TERRITORY, AND PROVIDED ACCOUNTS BY EYEWITNESSES AND MUNICIPAL AUTHORITIES, BUT WHICH, ACCORDING TO THE FOREIGN MINISTRY, LACK CREDIBILITY OR IMPORTANCE.</p><p>LATER FOREIGN NEWSMEN WENT TO THESE PLACES AND CONFIRMED WHAT TIEMPO AND LA PRENSA HAD REPORTED. THEY ALSO OBTAINED OTHER DETAILS ON THE INCIDENTS. WHILE THE HONDURAN AND SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES DENIED THE INCIDENT, DESPITE THE EVIDENCE, THE TRUTH IS THERE FOR THE GENTLEMEN OF THE FOREIGN MINISTRY TO SEE.</p><p>ACCORDING TO STATEMENTS BY THE VILLAGERS WHO WERE THE VICTIMS OF THE SALVADORAN AGGRESSION, THE HONDURAN MILITARY THREATENED THEM AND ORDERED THEM TO BE SILENT OR TO LIE ABOUT WHAT HAD HAPPENED. IT WAS NECESSARY FOR THE SANTA LUCIA MAYOR TO INTERVENE BEFORE THEY COULD TELL NEWSMEN WHAT HAD HAPPENED. A REPORTER FOR LA PRENSA WAS SIDETRACKED BY A COMMANDER, NO DOUBT TO KEEP HIM FROM DOING HIS JOB AS A JOURNALIST.</p><p>THE HONDURAN ARMY'S WEAPONS SERVED TO KEEP THE AGGRESSION QUIET INSTEAD OF REPELLING IT, TO THREATEN HONDURAN BORDER VILLAGERS INSTEAD OF PROTECTING THEM, WHILE THE ARMY TURNED ITS BACK ON THE ENEMY ARMED FORCES -- WHICH HAVE TRAMPLED ON OUR TERRITORY AND HUMILIATED US -- INSTEAD OF FIGHTING THEM. IN SHORT, THE WEAPONS THAT WE HONDURANS AND THE ARMED FORCES HAVE OBTAINED WITH SO MUCH SACRIFICE, EVEN AT THE EXPENSE OF GOING WITHOUT FOOD AND MEDICINE, ARE USED AGAINST HONDURAS AND ITS PEOPLE.</p><p>THIS SITUATION SHOULD CAUSE US TO GIVE MUCH THOUGHT TO THE EXISTENCE OF THE HONDURAN ARMED FORCES. WE ANTICIPATED THIS WHEN THE REGIONAL MILITARY TRAINING AND SECURITY CENTER (CREMS) WAS CREATED EXCLUSIVELY TO TRAIN 10,000 SALVADORAN TROOPS -- THE SAME ARMY THAT INVADED US IN 1969 AND THAT IS ATTACKING US AGAIN.</p><p>WE WONDER IF WE ARE NOT ACQUIRING A MERCENARY MENTALITY IN HONDURAS, WHEREBY THE STATE'S WEAPONS GO TO THE HIGHEST BIDDER RATHER THAN BEING USED IN THE NATIONAL INTEREST. FOR THE PAST 7 YEARS THEY HAVE BEEN USED FOR ECONOMIC -- THOUGH IDEOLOGICALLY DISGUISED -- BENEFITS.</p><p>NO NATIONAL MILITARY FORCE CAN FUNCTION LIKE THIS ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD. IN ANY EVENT, THE IDEOLOGY OF ANY ARMY SHOULD BE NATIONALISTIC, EVEN IN THE CASE OF POWERS AND SUPERPOWERS THAT INVENT AND USE INTERNATIONALIST IDEOLOGIES FOR THEIR HEGEMONIC STRUGGLES.</p><p>HERE IN HONDURAS THE CASE OF THE ARMED FORCES IS JUST THE OPPOSITE. TO THE MILITARY INSTITUTE'S WAY OF THINKING, THOSE WHO ARE DEMANDING THE DEFENSE OF SOVEREIGNTY AND TERRITORIAL INTEGRITY ARE SUBVERSIVES WHO ARE ALLIED WITH SUBVERSIVES FROM OTHER COUNTRIES. AN AGGRESSION AGAINST HONDURAS BY A FOREIGN ARMY IS LEGITIMIZED BY THE PEOPLE ATTACKED AND THOSE WHO INFORM AND PROTEST ARE ENEMIES OF THE FATHERLAND.</p><p>THIS WAS STATED IN AN EDITORIAL OF THE HONDURAN ARMED FORCES' "MILITARY PROJECTIONS" PROGRAM. THE EDITORIAL SAID THAT THE REPORT WAS ISSUED "WITHOUT PRIOR INVESTIGATION" AND WAS BASED SOLELY "ON INFORMATION PROVIDED BY THESE GROUPS TO CONFUSE NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC OPINION."</p><p>"THE IRRESPONSIBILITY OF SOME PRINT AND BROADCAST MEDIA DIRECTORS HAS REACHED THE POINT THAT THEY ARE PROMOTING THESE CLEARLY MARXIST - LENINIST SUBVERSIVES, FINANCED BY CUBA AND NICARAGUA, AND THOSE WHO DO NOT HIDE THEIR OPEN SYMPATHY WITH PSEUDO-PROFESSIONAL POSITIONS. THEY ATTEMPT TO CONCEAL THIS BY CLAIMING THAT RADIO STATIONS OR NEWSPAPERS HAVE UNRESTRICTED FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION."</p><p>A SIMILAR EXPLANATION WAS PRESENTED BY THE SALVADORAN EMBASSY IN TEGUCIGALPA IN A PRESS COMMUNIQUE DISTRIBUTED TO THE MEDIA, WHICH PUBLISHED AND DISSEMINATED IT -- ALTHOUGH IT APPEARS INCREDIBLE -- THROUGH THE OFFICIAL PRESIDENTIAL HOUSE BULLETINS. WE MIGHT ADD THAT THE HONDURAN ARMY HAS ECHOED SUCH REPORTS, AS AN ACCOMPLICE TO A PROPAGANDA PLOY TO COVER UP AN AGGRESSION AGAINST OUR COUNTRY.</p><p>WE ASK, THEREFORE: "WHAT IS LEFT OF OUR NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS? WHAT IS HONDURAS? WHO ARE HONDURANS?"</p></body></html>