<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1244"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1244"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1244</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1244 (BOEING)</p><p>BOGOTA, 27 APR 90 [INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [SPEECH] [COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] I AM HAPPY THAT NAVARRO, OVER THE TELEVISION, CALLED FOR COMMON SENSE AND FOR PIZARRO'S FUNERAL TO BE CONDUCTED IN PEACE TOMORROW. IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW, THE GOVERNMENT WILL CONTINUE TO DO EVERYTHING POSSIBLE SO THAT THE M-19 AND THE OTHER POLITICAL PARTIES CAN CARRY ON THEIR CAMPAIGN ACTIVITIES. THE GOVERNMENT AND I HAVE FULLY SUPPORTED THE ARMY, THE POLICE, THE DAS [ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY], AND ALL OF THE AUTHORITIES CHARGED WITH MAINTAINING ORDER. THESE AGENCIES ARE AWARE OF THEIR RESPONSIBILITY AND ARE MAKING GREAT EFFORTS TO CARRY OUT THEIR DUTIES EFFICIENTLY.</p><p>AT THIS TIME, THERE IS A TENDENCY TO OVERLOOK THE RESULTS ACHIEVED IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST THE VIOLENT ONES AND THE SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS ACHIEVED. I UNDERSTAND THE IMPATIENCE AND THE DESIRE FOR DEFINITIVE RESULTS AGAINST NOT ONLY DRUG TRAFFICKING BUT ALL OTHER EXPRESSIONS OF VIOLENCE AS WELL.</p><p>I WILL NOW MENTION SOME OF THE MEASURES THAT COMPLEMENT THOSE THAT HAVE ALREADY BEEN TAKEN. THE GOVERNMENT HAS PROPOSED THE CREATION OF A HIGH-LEVEL COMMISSION, IN WHICH THE POLITICAL PARTIES ARE REPRESENTED, TO FOLLOW UP THE ELECTORAL PROCESS AND TO ASSESS THE SECURITY MEASURES THAT THE PUBLIC FORCE AND THE SECURITY ORGANIZATIONS HAVE BEEN PROVIDING FOR ALL CANDIDATES. THIS COMMISSION CAN BY ITSELF PROPOSE NEW MEASURES TO REINFORCE THE ELECTORAL GUARANTEES IN VARIOUS AREAS. IN ADDITION, THE GOVERNMENT MINISTER AND THOSE IN CHARGE OF SECURITY WILL MEET WITH REPRESENTATIVES OF EACH OF THE POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS TO CONSIDER THE EXISTING PROTECTION MEASURES. THE COMMISSION MET WITH THE M-19 AT THE SECURITY COUNCIL TODAY AND WILL MEET WITH THE OTHER POLITICAL MOVEMENTS IN THE NEXT FEW DAYS.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT HAS MADE EFFORTS TO PROVIDE THE BEST POSSIBLE PROTECTION FOR ALL OF THE CANDIDATES. THE GOVERNMENT WILL CONTINUE TO WORK TO REDUCE THE RISK OF EACH OF THE CANDIDATES TO ITS LOWEST LEVEL. FOR THIS REASON, THE GOVERMENT WILL REVISE THE EXISTING SITUATION REGARDING MOBILIZATION AND LOCATION OF THE CANDIDATES. ALSO, THE GOVERNMENT WILL DOUBLE THE NUMBER OF ELITE POLICEMEN, WHO HAVE DEMONSTRATED THE GREATEST EFFICIENCY IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TERRORISM AND THE PARAMILITARY GROUPS. THE 1ST ARMY DIVISION COMMANDER HAS BEEN ASSIGNED THE SPECIFIC TASK OF COORDINATING ALL FORCES, SECURITY AGENCIES, AND MILITARY OPERATIONS IN THE MEDELLIN AREA.</p><p>THE COUNTRY KNOWS THAT THIS GOVERNMENT HAS ENCOURAGED A BROAD, PARTICIPATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL REFORM PROCESS. TWO YEARS AGO, THE GOVERNMENT PROPOSED A PLEBISCITE AND THEN PRESENTED TO THE CONGRESS A CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS BILL. IN THIS WAY, THE GOVERNMENT INTERPRETED THE NATIONAL FEELING, WHICH DEMANDS A MORE EFFICIENT ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE AND EVEN MORE STRINGENT ANTITERRORIST MEASURES, FOR WHICH IT IS NECESSARY TO AMEND THE CONSTITUTION. THE GOVERNMENT ALSO ECHOED THE PEOPLE'S CALL FOR STRONGER INSTITUTIONS AND A MORE EFFICIENT AND REPRESENTATIVE CONGRESS. COLOMBIANS KNOW THAT THE CURRENT EVILS WILL BE DEFINITIVELY OVERCOME BY EXPANDING AND STRENGTHENING OUR DEMOCRACY EVEN FURTHER, CREATING OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE CITIZENS' PARTICIPATION IN THE DECISIONS THAT CONCERN THEM MOST.</p><p>I WANT TO REAFFIRM THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS DETERMINED TO DO EVEYTHING NECESSARY SO THAT IN THE NEXT ELECTIONS WE CAN PAVE THE WAY FOR CONSTITUTIONAL REFORMS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>