<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1026"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1026"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BEIJING (PRC)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1026</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1026 (TRW)</p><p>BEIJING (PRC), 15 DEC 89 (JIEFANGJUN BAO) -- [TEXT] FROM 10 TO 12 DECEMBER, PRESIDENTS OF FIVE CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES HELD A SPECIAL MEETING TO MEDIATE BETWEEN THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND GUERRILLAS. BUT SO FAR NO AGREEMENT HAS BEEN REACHED BY BOTH SIDES ON BRINGING ABOUT A CEASE-FIRE DURING CHRISTMAS. THEIR 1-MONTH-LONG FIERCE BATTLE HAS LEFT 3,000 PEOPLE DEAD AND ALSO CAST A SHADOW OVER THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PEACE PROCESS.</p><p>THE CURRENT CIVIL WAR IN EL SALVADOR WAS TRIGGERED OFF BY THE DESTRUCTION OF THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE LABOR FEDERATION, THE COUNTRY'S BIGGEST TRADE UNION ORGANIZATION. ON 31 OCTOBER, AN ULTRARIGHTIST "DARE-TO-DIE SQUAD" SUPPORTED BY THE GOVERNMENT AND THE MILITARY USED A HEAVY BOMB TO BOMBARD THE HEADQUARTERS BUILDING OF THE LABOR FEDERATION, KILLING AND WOUNDING OVER 40 PEOPLE INCLUDING PRINCIPAL LEADERS OF THE FEDERATION. ON 2 NOVEMBER, THE GUERRILLAS ISSUED A STATEMENT STRONGLY CONDEMNING THE TERRORIST ACTIVITY OF THE SQUAD AND DECLARING THE CANCELLATION OF THE THIRD ROUND OF TALKS WITH THE GOVERNMENT SCHEDULED IN VENEZUELA. ON THE SAME NIGHT THE GUERRILLAS LAUNCHED A LARGE-SCALE OFFENSIVE "TO ELIMINATE FASCISM." ABOUT 8,000 GUERRILLAS SWIFTLY CAPTURED MANY TOWNS AND STRATEGIC POSITIONS NORTHWEST OF THE CAPITAL AND CUT KEY COMMUNICATIONS LINES BETWEEN THE CAPITAL AND THE HINTERLAND. IN THE MEANTIME, THEY ALSO ATTACKED SOME 50 GOVERNMENT ARMY BASES AND POLICE STATIONS IN THE HINTERLAND, THUS CONTROLLING 30 PERCENT OF THE COUNTRY'S TERRITORY. THEY HAVE ESTABLISHED "LOCAL PEOPLE'S GOVERNMENTS" IN 8 OF THE 14 PROVINCES THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY. DURING THIS PERIOD, THE GOVERNMENT DISPATCHED ARMORED CARS AND AIR FORCE UNITS TO CARRY OUT COUNTERATTACKS. THEY WANTONLY BOMBARDED THE RESIDENTIAL AREAS NEAR THE CAPITAL CITY OCCUPIED BY THE GUERRILLAS. AFTER 8 DAYS OF FIERCE BATTLE, THE GUERRILLAS SHOT DOWN 12 GOVERNMENT FIGHTER PLANES AND HELICOPTERS; DESTROYED 34 TANKS, ARMORED CARS, AND PATROL CARS; AND CAPTURED A LARGE AMOUNT OF ARMS AND AMMUNITION. SUBSEQUENTLY BATTLES CONTINUED IN REGIONS OUTSIDE THE CAPITAL CITY. SINCE EARLY DECEMBER BOTH SIDES HAVE ENGAGED IN FIERCE BATTLES IN THE CAPITAL CITY AND THE HINTERLAND. THE GUERRILLAS USED MORTARS TO ATTACK THE BUILDING OF THE GOVERNMENT ARMY GENERAL STAFF HEADQUARTERS, THE U.S. EMBASSY, AND THE PRESIDENTIAL RESTAURANT, WHEREAS THE GOVERNMENT ARMY DISPATCHED PLANES TO BOMBARD THE GUERRILLA POSITIONS. FIERCE BATTLES HAVE ALSO BROKEN OUT IN CHALATENANGO, SAN MIGUEL, AND OTHER TOWNS, THEREBY CAUSING HEAVY CASUALTIES AND PROPERTY LOSSES.</p><p>THIS WAR HAS DEEP-ROOTED CAUSES. EL SALVADOR IS A SMALL COUNTRY WITH AN AREA OF 21,000 SQUARE KM AND A POPULATION OF 5 MILLION. DURING THIS 10-YEAR-LONG WAR, 70,000 PEOPLE HAVE DIED AND THE NATIONAL ECONOMY HAS BEEN SERIOUSLY DESTROYED. THE ULTRARIGHTIST NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE [ARENA] WON THE GENERAL ELECTION EARLY THIS YEAR, THUS AGGRAVATING THE CONFLICT BETWEEN THE GUERRILLAS AND THE GOVERNMENT. PRIOR TO THE ELECTION, THE GUERRILLAS PUT FORWARD A PEACE PROPOSAL DEMANDING SIX MONTHS' POSPONEMENT OF THE ELECTION SO AS TO MAKE THEIR PARTICIPATION POSSIBLE. BUT THIS PROPOSAL WAS REJECTED BY THE GOVERNMENT. BECAUSE ALMOST HALF OF THE VOTERS DID NOT VOTE, THE GUERRILLAS DECLARED IT DID NOT RECOGNIZE THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT. PRESSED BY DOMESTIC PUBLIC OPINION AND URGED BY THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PEACE AGREEMENT, THE GOVERNMENT AND THE GUERRILLAS HELD TWO ROUNDS OF TALKS IN SEPTEMBER AND OCTOBER. DURING THEIR TALKS THE GUERRILLAS DEMANDED THAT THE GOVERNMENT STOP ITS SUPPRESSION, INTRODUCE POLITICAL, ECONOMIC, AND JUDICIAL REFORMS, REORGANIZE THE ARMED FORCES, AND PUNISH THE "DARE-TO-DIE SQUAD." THE GOVERNMENT INSISTED THAT THE GUERRILLAS SHOULD LAY DOWN THEIR ARMS BEFORE REFORMS WERE CARRIED OUT. THE HARD-LINE POSITION OF THE GOVERNMENT REFLECTED THE ESTABLISHED POLICY OF THE RULING PARTY, WHICH HAS ALL ALONG STOOD FOR RULING THE COUNTRY BY MILITARY MEANS, ADVOCATED THE SUPPRESSION OF DEMOCRATIC FORCES, AND SUPPORTED THE "DARE-TO-DIE SQUAD" IN CARRYING OUT ASSASSINATION. A UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT IN CENTRAL AMERICA WAS ASSASSINATED BY THE SQUAD FOR CRITICIZING THE ULTRARIGHTIST POLICY OF THE RULING PARTY. RECENTLY THE RULING PARTY SUPPORTED THE "DARE-TO-DIE SQUAD" IN ATTACKING THE LABOR FEDERATION'S BUILDING. THIS IGNITED THE CURRENT CIVIL WAR AND UNDERMINED THE PEACE PROCESS IN THE COUNTRY. THE GUERRILLAS ISSUED A STATEMENT ON 12 DECEMBER CONDEMNING THE MEETING OF THE FIVE HEADS OF STATE FOR BEING PARTIAL TO THE ULTRARIGHTIST SALVADORIAN GOVERNMENT. THEY MADE IT CLEAR THAT THEY WOULD NOT ACCEPT ANY EFFORT TO DISSOLVE THE GUERRILLA FORCES AND WOULD CARRY ON THEIR STRUGGLE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>