<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0833"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0833"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MEXICO CITY (MEXICO)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0833</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0833 (PRC)</p><p>MEXICO CITY (MEXICO), 21 NOV 89 (RED NACIONAL 13 IMEVISION TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] IMEVISION CORRESPONDENT FOR CENTRAL AMERICA EPIGMENIO IBARRA WAS DETAINED BY THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES FOR A FEW HOURS AFTER BEING IN A CAR ACCIDENT IN MERLIOT NEIGHBORHOOD. IBARRA WAS RELEASED LAST NIGHT AND TAKEN TO A HOSPITAL WERE HE IS BEING TAKEN CARE OF. OUR REPORTS STATE THAT HIS CONDITION IS STABLE.</p><p>EPIGMENIO IBARRA, KNOWN FOR HIS IMPORTANT AND OUTSTANDING INCURSIONS INTO THE SALVADORAN BATTLEFIELD, HAS BEEN THE VICTIM OF FREQUENT SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES ATTACKS.</p><p>WE, THE IMEVISION WORKERS, REPUDIATE THIS ATTACK ON EPIGMENIO IBARRA, WHO WAS ARRESTED AND RELEASED LAST NIGHT.</p><p>CLASHES BETWEEN THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] AND THE SALVADORAN ARMY RESUMED YESTERDAY AFTERNOON AFTER A PERIOD OF APPARENT CALM IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>SHOOTING IN ESCALON, SAN BENITO, AND MERLIOT NEIGHBORHOODS WORSENED AFTER THE AIR FORCE BOMBED THE DENSELY POPULATED AREA. CLANDESTINE RADIO VENCEREMOS HAS ASSERTED THAT THE AREAS OCCUPIED BY THE REBELS DURING THE LAST FEW DAYS CONTINUE UNDER THEIR CONTROL.</p><p>THERE IS HEAVY FIGHTING BETWEEN THE GUERRILLAS AND THE GOVERNMENT FORCES IN ZACATECOLUCA DEPARTMENT, AND NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR IS UNDER FMLN CONTROL.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [FMLN COMMANDER JORGE MELENDEZ] WE TRUST THAT DESPITE THE ENORMOUS BLOODSHED, THE WAY IN WHICH THE ARMY IS FACING OUR ATTACKS REAFFIRMS THE ABSOLUTE JUSTICE AND LEGITIMACY OF OUR STRUGGLE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE ARMY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO ADVANCE DUE TO THE THE GUERRILLA TACTICS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [UNIDENTIFIED ARMY MEMBER] AT PRESENT, OUR MEN ARE ENTERING THE AREA AND COMBING THE AREA BLOCK BY BLOCK, BECAUSE WE HAVE TOO MANY CIVILIANS IN THIS AREA. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THOUSANDS OF SALVADORANS HAVE SOUGHT REFUGE IN CHURCHES AND RED CROSS BUILDINGS.</p><p>OAS SECRETARY GENERAL JOAO BAENA SOARES HAS VISITED THE AREAS MOST AFFFECTED BY THE FIGHTING. IN WASHINGTON, PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH REFUSED TO WITHDRAW THE U.S. AID FOR SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT.</p><p>MEANWHILE, SALVADORAN FOREIGN MINISTER JOSE MANUEL PACAS HAS REJECTED ALL POSSIBILITIES OF A DIALOGUE WITH THE FMLN REBELS. IN VENEZUELA, IT WAS REPORTED THAT THE ROUND OF TALKS BETWEEN THE GUERRILLA MOVEMENT AND THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT SCHEDULED TO BE HELD THIS WEEK WAS SUSPENDED FOR AN INDEFINITE PERIOD.</p></body></html>