<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1071"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1071"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1071</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1071 (TRW)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 28 JAN 90 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON, LIFETIME PRESIDENT OF ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE], HAS SAID THAT THERE WILL BE NO FURTHER ARRESTS OR DETENTIONS OF SOLDIERS IN CONNECTION WITH THE JESUIT MURDER CASE.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT'S STRONGMAN HAS SAID IT IS OVER, PERIOD. D'AUBUISSON INSISTS THAT THERE ARE NO OTHER MILITARY MEN INVOLVED IN THE JESUIT CASE, ACCORDING TO A HEADLINE IN TODAY'S LA PRENSA GRAFICA, IN WHICH IT PUBLISHES D'AUBUISSON'S STATEMENTS.</p><p>WE DO NOT BELIEVE THE PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE WILL SUMMON D'AUBUISSON TO PRESENT THE EVIDENCE THAT HAS LED HIM TO ASSERT CATEGORICALLY THAT NO OTHER SENIOR OFFICERS WERE INVOLVED IN THE ASSASSINATION OF THE PRIESTS. WE DO NOT BELIEVE SO, BECAUSE THAT PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED TO SUMMON OR TO INQUIRE, NOT EVEN TO SUMMON THE MAIN SUSPECT IN THE MURDERS, WHICH HAVE BEEN BLAMED ON THE DEATH SQUADS. ONE OF THEM IS FORMER PRESIDENT JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE, WHO ACCUSED HIM OF BEING THE MASTERMIND OF MSGR ROMERO'S ASSASSINATION. YET, D'AUBUISSON GOES ON COMPLETELY UNSCATHED.</p><p>THEREFORE, ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON TODAY PLACED A FINAL PERIOD ON THE INVESTIGATION OF COLONEL [GUILLERMO] BENAVIDES. OBVIOUSLY, MAJOR D'AUBUISSON, THE ARENA STRONGMAN, IS PLACING A FINAL PERIOD ON THE CASE, AND HE IS TELLING THIS DIRECTLY AND PUBLICLY TO CRISTIANI, THE YANKEES, AND THE REST OF LA TANDONA [REFERENCE TO THE 1966 GRADUATING CLASS OF CAPTAIN GENERAL GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY ACADEMY].</p><p>IT IS IMPERATIVE FOR ARENA MEMBERS TO TELL CRISTIANI HOW FAR TO GO WITH THE INVESTIGATION. THEY NEVER APPROVED OF HAVING EVEN THE LIEUTENANTS OF THE ATLACATL BATTALION INVESTIGATED. THE HEATED ARGUMENTS WITHIN THE ARENA LEADERSHIP HAVE DESTABILIZED THE GOVERNMENT TO SUCH AN EXTENT THAT MERINO'S SUDDEN FALL IS BUT THE TIP OF THE ICEBERG AND D'AUBUISSON'S SIGNAL TO STOP A SHOW OF FORCE. D'AUBUISSON BELIEVES THAT SERVING UP BENAVIDES' HEAD IS MORE THAN ENOUGH, AND THIS IS THE FRANK MESSAGE THAT ARENA AND THE GOVERNMENT ARE SENDING TO THE U.S. CONGRESS, PRECISELY AT THE TIME THE YANKEE POLICY ON EL SALVADOR IS UNDER SERIOUS SCRUTINY.</p><p>THE STRONGMAN IS TELLING LA TANDONA: DO NOT WORRY ANY MORE. WE HAD TO GIVE SOMETHING TO THE CONGRESS, BUT CRISTIANI'S MODERATION WILL GO JUST SO FAR. D'AUBUISSON CONTINUES TO BE THE STRONGMAN.</p></body></html>