<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0314"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0314"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0314</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0314 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>LIMA, 28 JUL 89 (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [SPEECH] [PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA] [EXCERPTS] MR PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS, GENTLEMEN MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL CONGRESS:</p><p>TEN YEARS AGO, THE MEMBERS OF THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY PRESIDED OVER BY HAYA DE LA TORRE, CALLING UP ON LORD GOD FOR STRENGTH AND IN KEEPING WITH THE POWERS VESTED IN US BY THE SOVEREIGN WILL OF THE PEOPLE, APPROVED THE NATIONAL CONSTITUTION. WE BELIEVE THAT THE HUMAN BEING COMES FIRST AND THAT ALL HONORABLE PEOPLE HAVE UNIVERSALLY VALID RIGHTS. THUS WE DECIDED TO WORK FOR A FREE AND JUST SOCIETY AND FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF A DEMOCRATIC STATE BASED ON POPULAR WILL AND ON THE FREE, PERIODIC CONSULTATION OF THIS WILL.</p><p>WE BET ON CIVILIZED COEXISTENCE AS A WAY OF LAUNCHING A PROCESS BASED ON STABLE AND LEGITIMATE INSTITUTIONS. THE MOST IMPORTANT CONDITIONS, HOWEVER, WERE SET FORTH IN CHAPTER 1, WHICH RECOGNIZED THE INDIVIDUAL'S BASIC RIGHTS AND DUTIES FOR THE FREE DEVELOPMENT OF HIS PERSONALITY.</p><p>OUR CONSTITUTION WAS A RESULT OF THE BALANCE ACHIEVED AMONG VARIOUS AND SOMETIMES ANTAGONISTIC POLITICAL FORCES. THUS, SOME OF ITS ECONOMIC ARTICLES MAY SEEM VAGUE. HOWEVER, UNDER THIS CONSTITUTION ANY IDEOLOGY CAN GOVERN THE COUNTRY AND MAKE CHANGES IN ANY DIRECTION WHATSOEVER, AS LONG AS THOSE FIRST CONDITIONS AGREED UPON BY CONSENSUS ARE RESPECTED. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>THIS IS THE LAST MESSAGE I WILL DELIVER TO CONGRESS AS PRESIDENT BEFORE I TURN THE PRESIDENCY OVER TO A CITIZEN ELECTED BY THE PEOPLE.</p><p>I CANNOT FAIL TO EXPAND ON THE ACHIEVEMENTS MADE THIS YEAR, WHICH, HONESTLY SPEAKING ARE MUCH FEWER THAN IN PREVIOUS YEARS. I AM DELIVERING A SUMMARY OF THESE ACHIEVEMENTS IN WRITING, AS ESTABLISH BY THE CONSTITUTION, FOR THE USE OF THE LEGISLATORS. IT IS A SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACHIEVEMENTS.</p><p>IT IS NOW MORE IMPORTANT TO ME TO SAY THAT THE MAIN OBJECTIVE OF THE GOVERNMENT IN THE NEXT 12 MONTHS WILL BE TO REAFFIRM THE SYSTEM OF DEMOCRATIC FREEDOM, WHICH IS THE MOST IMPORTANT SYSTEM PERU HAS. WITH THIS FREEDOM, EVEN THE MOST EXTREME POSITIONS CAN EXIST. THE REACTIONARY POSITIONS OF THE ULTRARIGHT AND RADICAL IDEOLOGIES CAN ALSO LIVE IN FREEDOM. VIOLENCE HAS LESS CHANCE OF DEVELOPING IN FREEDOM. THE NATION HAS MORE LEGITIMATE MEANS TO ERADICATE VIOLENCE UNDER FREEDOM.</p><p>LIKE ANY OTHER CITIZEN, I ALSO BELIEVE THAT SOMETIMES DISAGREEMENTS, POLITICAL PARTIES, LAWS, AND SKILLFUL LEGAL PROCEDURES CAN OBSTRUCT MANY THINGS AND STOP DECISIONS. BUT THIS IS THE PRICE FOR A CIVILIZED LIFESTYLE. DEMOCRACY DOES NOT HAVE THE FORTHRIGHTNESS OF A DICTATORSHIP. DEMOCRACY IS SLOWER, BUT DEMANDS MORE FIRMNESS, MORE CONVICTION, MORE PATIENCE. DEMOCRACY DEMANDS THE GRADUAL EDUCATION OF THE PEOPLE; THIS TAKES A LONG TIME. I AM SAYING THIS BECAUSE THE COUNTRY HAS BEEN SUFFERING A DRAMATIC ECONOMIC CRISIS SINCE SEPTEMBER 1988, AND IT HAS BEEN NECESSARY TO MAKE HARSH CHANGES AT A TIME WHEN VIOLENCE HAS SEEMED TO INCREASE.</p><p>WE HEARD SOME PEOPLE WHO HAD LOST THEIR COOL DEMANDING AN INTERRUPTION OF OUR DEMOCRACY. THEY CALLED FOR A SHORTER GOVERNMENT TERM. THEY ALSO SAID THAT THE COUNTRY COULD DEFEAT THE TERRORIST VIOLENCE AND THE ECONOMIC CRISIS BY RESTRICTING FREEDOM AND ESTABLISHING AN AUTHORITARIAN REGIME.</p><p>I BELIEVE THAT THOSE WERE IMMATURE VOICES, DECEITFUL TEMPTATIONS. MANY OF THOSE VOICES UNFORTUNATELY CAME FROM PEOPLE WHO HAVE MORE WEALTH. BY DOING THIS THEY HAVE SHOWN THAT THEY ARE NOT YET READY TO COEXIST DEMOCRATICALLY AND TO ACCEPT THAT SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC TENSIONS, EVEN AT THE WORSE TIMES, SHOULD BE HANDLED WITH SERENITY AND PATIENCE. A DICTATORSHIP THAT VIOLATES LEGAL PROCEDURES WILL ONLY HELP TO INCREASE VIOLENCE AND LEGITIMATE INSURGENCY, AND WOULD STIMULATE THE CREATION OF NEW SUBVERSIVE GROUPS. A DICTATORSHIP CANNOT SOLVE THE ECONOMIC CRISIS. IT WOULD ONLY HAVE LIMITED POWER AND WOULD IMPOSE A TRAUMATIC EXPERIENCE THAT WOULD LEAD NOWHERE.</p><p>I AM REFERRING TO THIS ISSUE BECAUSE THE NEXT 12 MONTHS WILL BE A CRUCIAL PERIOD. I CALL ON THE PERUVIAN PEOPLE TO LOOK AT THE FUTURE OF OUR DEMOCRACY BY REALIZING THAT IN A DEMOCRACY THE PROBLEMS ARE SOLVED WITH MORE DEMOCRACY, WITH MORE FREEDOM, AND WITH MORE PARTICIPATION. TO HAVE DEMOCRACY, ONE MUST HAVE A GREAT DEAL OF PATIENCE.</p><p>THIS IS MY LAST MESSAGE TO CONGRESS. I AM COMMITTED TO MORE FREEDOM AND MORE FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION, WHICH SOMETIMES WE DOUBT BECAUSE OF EXCESSES. BUT FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION WILL ALWAYS BE POSITIVE, BECAUSE WITHOUT FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION ABUSE WILL PREVAIL. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>