<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1031"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1031"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BUENOS AIRES"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1031</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1031 (TRW)</p><p>BUENOS AIRES, 28 DEC 89 (TELAM) -- [TEXT] THE ARGENTINE CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES TODAY "STRONGLY REPUDIATED" THE U.S. MILITARY INTERVENTION IN PANAMA BY APPROVING A DECLARATION SPONSORED BY THE JUSTICIALIST PARTY (PJ) AND THE RADICAL CIVIC UNION (UCR) BLOCS. THE PROPOSAL MET WITH STRONG OPPOSITION FROM THE DEMOCRATIC CENTRIST UNION (UCEDE) DEPUTIES.</p><p>THE DECLARATION PROPOSED BY PJ DEPUTY JUAN PABLO CAFIERO CALLS FOR THE IMMEDIATE WITHDRAWAL OF THE U.S. TROOPS THAT INVADED PANAMA TO OUST GENERAL MANUEL NORIEGA'S GOVERNMENT.</p><p>IT ALSO URGES THE UNITED STATES TO "STRICTLY COMPLY WITH THE TORRIJOS-CARTER TREATIES" ON THE FUTURE OF THE PANAMA CANAL. THE DECLARATION REJECTS ALL TYPES OF DICTATORIAL REGIMES, IMPLICITLY REFERRING TO NORIEGA.</p><p>THIS STATEMENT WAS INCLUDED IN THE DECLARATION AT THE SUGGESTION OF FEDERAL PARTY DEPUTY RUTH MONJARDIN AFTER OBTAINING THE SUPPORT OF JOSE MANZANO, THE SPEAKER FOR THE PJ BLOC; SATURNINO ARANA (PJ), CHAIRMAN OF THE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE; AND UCR DEPUTY DANTE CAPUTO.</p><p>THE DECLARATION ALSO RECEIVED THE SUPPORT OF INTRANSIGENT PARTY DEPUTY OSCAR ALENDE, CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEPUTY HECTOR GATTI, AND POPULAR DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEPUTY ALBERTO ARAMOUNI. DEPUTY LUIS ZAMORA OF THE MOVEMENT TOWARD SOCIALISM REJECTED THE DECLARATION ON THE GROUNDS THAT IT WAS MEANINGLESS "TO ASK ANYTHING OF A COUNTRY THAT IS KILLING PANAMANIANS."</p><p>THE UCEDE OPPOSED THE DECLARATION, AND BLOC SPEAKER FEDERICO CLERICI WAS MOCKED BY PJ AND UCR DEPUTIES WHEN HE READ AN ALTERNATE DECLARATION PREPARED BY UCEDE DEPUTY ADELINA DALESSIO DE VIOLA, WHICH URGED THE GOVERNMENTS OF BOTH THE UNITED STATES AND PANAMA TO "STOP USING VIOLENCE."</p><p>UCEDE DEPUTY FRANCISCO DURANONA Y VEDIA CRITICIZED THE DECLARATION BY STATING THAT IT IMPLIED SUPPORT FOR GENERAL NORIEGA'S REGIME. DEPUTY FEDERICO ZAMORA, ALSO FROM THE UCEDE, LAMENTED THAT "THERE ARE SO MANY FORGETFUL PEOPLE HERE. A LOT IS BEING SAID ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED IN PANAMA, BUT NOTHING IS BEING SAID ABOUT ROMANIA."</p><p>FORMER FOREIGN MINISTER AND UCR DEPUTY DANTE CAPUTO SUPPORTED THE DECLARATION AND SAID THAT "TO ACCEPT THE U.S. INVASION WOULD BE TANTAMOUNT TO ADMITTING THAT THE END JUSTIFIES THE MEANS," ADDING THAT SUCH IDEAS MUST BE REJECTED, EVEN THOUGH PANAMA MAY HAVE HAD AN "ILLEGAL, DICTATORIAL AND CORRUPT" GOVERNMENT.</p><p>TOWARD THE END OF THE DEBATE, PJ BLOC SPEAKER JOSE MANZANO SAID THAT "BY CRITICIZING THIS SAVAGERY WE SEEK TO HELP RELATIONS BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND LATIN AMERICA [LE HACEMOS UN FAVOR A LA RELACION DE ESTADOS UNIDOS CON AMERICA LATINA]. HE ADDED THAT THE UNITED STATES HAS DIFFERENT STANDARDS FOR THE DESIRE FOR FREEDOM OF TALL BLOND EAST GERMANS AND OF SHORT DARK PANAMANIANS."</p></body></html>