<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0942"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0942"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0942</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0942 (SRI)</p><p>BOGOTA, 6 DEC 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO] [TEXT] COMPATRIOTS, AS YOU KNOW, I CAME TO JAPAN TO FULFILL A MISSION IN THIS COUNTRY, WHICH HAS ALWAYS EXPRESSED ITS SOLIDARITY WITH COLOMBIA.</p><p>I HAVE BEEN, HOWEVER, CLOSELY FOLLOWING THE COUNTRY'S SITUATION WITH DEEP SADNESS AND INDIGNATION AFTER THE CRIMINAL ATTACK ON THE DAS [ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY] FACILITIES, WHICH DEEPLY SHOOK ALL COLOMBIANS.</p><p>I HAVE BEEN IN CONSTANT TOUCH WITH CARLOS LEMOS SIMMONS, THE MINISTER DESIGNATED TO ACT ON MY BEHALF AND WITH MY CLOSEST ASSISTANTS.</p><p>IN THE PAST FEW DAYS, WE HAVE EXPERIENCED AN INCREASE IN THE VILE ATTACKS CARRIED OUT BY THE DRUG TRAFFICKING CRIMINAL ORGANIZATION. THOSE ATTACKS HAVE TAKEN THE LIFE OF MANY INNOCENT COLOMBIANS. MEN, WOMEN, AND CHILDREN, WHO WERE IN THE PRIME OF THEIR LIVES, HAVE BEEN SACRIFICED BY MAD ACTIONS CARRIED OUT BY CRIMINALS, WHO INTEND TO CONTROL AN ENTIRE PEOPLE, GOVERNMENT, AND COUNTRY THROUGH TERROR AND DESTRUCTION.</p><p>THEY WILL NOT DEFEAT US. WE ARE AND WILL CONTINUE STRUGGLING. THE WAR HAS BEEN DECLARED ON THE ENTIRE COUNTRY AND ON DEMOCRACY. WE WILL NOT FALL UNDER THE CONTROL OF THE NARCOTERRORISTS' BLOODY TYRANNY.</p><p>LAST NIGHT, THE COUNTRY LEARNED ABOUT THE COLOMBIAN CHAMBER OF REPRESENTATIVES'S DECISION TO APPROVE THE CONSTITUTIONAL REFORMS WITH THE INCLUSION OF THE EXTRADITION ISSUE IN THE REFERENDUM.</p><p>THE CONFIRMATION THAT THE AVIANCA PLANE CRASH WAS CAUSED BY A BOMB; THE MURDER OF BERNARDO JARAMILLO URIBE, ROVING 13TH JUDGE OF CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION; AND THIS MORNING'S ATROCIOUS ATTACK ON THE DAS FACILITIES FURTHER PROVES THAT THE DECISION MADE BY THE CHAMBER OF REPRESENTATIVES IS HIGHLY UNSUITABLE FOR THE ENTIRE COUNTRY.</p><p>WE ABSOLUTELY CANNOT ACCEPT DRUG TRAFFICKERS TRYING TO FORCE OUR LEGISLATORS TO ADOPT A DECISION THAT WOULD ONLY BRING MORE DESTRUCTION AND DEATH TO COLOMBIA, BECAUSE IF THE INCLUSION OF THE EXTRADITION ISSUE IS APPROVED IN THE REFERENDUM, IT WOULD NOT BE A DECISION MADE BY THE SOVEREIGN WILL OF THE PEOPLE, BUT BY THE FORCE OF BULLETS AND TERROR.</p><p>COLOMBIANS HAVE UNFORTUNATELY PAID TOO HIGH A PRICE TO FIND OUT WHAT THESE CRIMINALS REALLY THINK. THEY SPOKE ABOUT A TRUCE AND THEN THEY MURDERED A JUDGE. SUBSEQUENTLY, THE CHAMBER OF REPRESENTATIVES APPROVED THE INCLUSION OF THE EXTRADITION ISSUE INTO THE REFERENDUM AND, IN GOOD FAITH, MANY PEOPLE THOUGHT THAT WAS THE FIRST STEP TOWARD PEACE WITH THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS. THEY WERE WRONG. THE NEXT DAY THE DAS FACILITIES WERE ATTACKED.</p><p>THOSE ACTIONS PROVE WHAT THOSE CRIMINALS ARE CAPABLE OF DOING TO OBTAIN A FAVORABLE DECISION IN THE REFERENDUM. THEY DO NOT CONDUCT AN ELECTION CAMPAIGN, BUT A CAMPAIGN OF TERROR TO ATTAIN THEIR GOALS.</p><p>I NOW REITERATE WHAT I SAID IN MY SPEECH BEFORE LEAVING FOR JAPAN. I SAID THAT THE CONSTITUTIONAL REFORMS WITH THE INCLUSION OF THE REFERENDUM IS HIGHLY UNSUITABLE.</p><p>I SHARE THE SORROW AND SADNESS OF ALL MY COMPATRIOTS, ESPECIALLY VICTIMS' RELATIVES. OUR INDIGNATION MUST REPRESENT ALL COLOMBIANS' INTENTION TO JOIN EFFORTS AND DROP PERSONAL INTERESTS.</p><p>COMPATRIOTS, WE MUST NEVER, WE WILL NEVER SUCCUMB TO THE NARCOTERRORISTS. THE STABLE DEMOCRACY WE HAVE BUILT AND DEFENDED WITH GREAT EFFORT FOR OVER 1 CENTURY IS ENDANGERED. THROUGHOUT ITS HISTORY, COLOMBIA HAS OVERCOME MORE DIFFICULT TIMES. LET US ALL STAND UP WITH FAITH, COURAGE, AND FIRMNESS TO DEFEND OUR HOMELAND AND FREEDOM. THANK YOU VERY MUCH.</p></body></html>