<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0865"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0865"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0865</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0865 (GTE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 24 NOV 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] ATTORNEY GENERAL MAURICIO COLORADO, INVESTIGATING THE MURDER OF THE SIX JESUITS IN EL SALVADOR, SAID TODAY THAT THE DECLARATIONS MADE SO FAR, AMONG THEM THOSE MADE BY LUCIA BARRERA CERNA, ONE OF THE MAIN WITNESSES, "ARE NOT CONCLUSIVE, NOR HAVE THEY SHED ANY LIGHT" ON THE IDENTITY OF THE KILLERS."</p><p>THE JESUITS, FIVE SPANIARDS AND ONE SALVADORAN, WERE MURDERED 9 DAYS AGO BY A GROUP OF MEN WEARING MILITARY UNIFORMS DURING A "CURFEW" DECREED BY THE GOVERNMENT AS A RESULT OF THE REBEL OFFENSIVE THAT BEGAN ON 11 NOVEMBER.</p><p>LUCIA BARRERA, WHO TESTIFIED BEFORE COLORADO, A GOVERNMENT COMMISSION INVESTIGATING THE MURDERS, AND SEVERAL DIPLOMATS, AMONG THEM SPANISH AMBASSADOR FRANCISCO CADIZ, SAID THAT THE MURDERERS NUMBERED BETWEEN 30 AND 40 UNIDENTIFIED MEN WEARING MILITARY UNIFORMS. COLORADO SAID IN A NEWS CONFERENCE THAT "THERE ARE SEVERAL WITNESSES, NONE OF WHICH HAS SHED MUCH LIGHT ON THE CASE. THEIR DECLARATIONS ARE NOT CONCLUSIVE REGARDING THIS SAD AND REGRETTABLE EVENT." HE STRESSED "THAT IT WOULD BE RASH TO SAY THAT THE SALVADORAN ARMY DID IT."</p><p>ACCORDING TO COLORADO, NEITHER FBI AGENTS FROM THE UNITED STATES, NOR SCOTLAND YARD AGENTS FROM GREAT BRITAIN, NOR THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT'S DELEGATES -- AS REQUESTED BY SALVDORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI WHEN HE PROMISED TO INVESTIGATE THE CASE EXHAUSTIVELY -- HAVE ARRIVED IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>HE SAID THAT THE COURT WILL SUBPOENA MARIA JULIA HERNANDEZ, DIRECTOR OF THE SAN SALVADORAN ARCHBISHOPRIC'S LEGAL AID OFFICE, "TO DECLARE WHAT SHE KNOWS, WHO TOLD HER WHAT, AND TO SAY IF SHE WAS AT THE SCENE."</p><p>THE ARCHBISHOPRIC'S LEGAL AID OFFICE, A HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATION, HAS PROMISED TO CONDUCT AN INVESTIGATION JOINTLY WITH THE JESUITS.</p><p>THE ATTORNEY GENERAL SAID THAT "WE ARE INVESTIGATING ALL CLUES," WHEN ASKED BY REPORTERS IF HE WOULD INTERROGATE THE SOLDIERS WHO WERE PATROLLING THE UNIVERSITY AREA WHERE THE MURDERS TOOK PLACE ON 16 NOVEMBER.</p><p>MEANWHILE, JOSE MARIA TOJEIRA, JESUIT SUPERIOR IN CENTRAL AMERICA, SAID THAT THE MAIN WITNESS TO THE MURDERS IS "SAFE AND SOUND" ABROAD, POSSIBLY IN THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>ACCORDING TO TOJEIRA, THE WITNESS, WHO WAS INTERROGATED REPEATEDLY, WAS KEPT UNDER STRICT SECURITY. HE STRESSED THAT SHE LEFT FOR AN UNKNOWN DESTINATION AND THAT SHE "IS AT EASE BECAUSE SHE HAS TOLD THE TRUTH."</p><p>JESUIT SUPERIOR TOJEIRA AND ARTURO RIVERA Y DAMAS, ARCHBISHOP OF SAN SALVADOR, HAVE ASSERTED THAT THERE IS A STRONG BELIEF THAT THE MURDERERS OF THE JESUITS WERE EITHER MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES OR PERSONS CLOSELY LINKED TO THEM.</p><p>WHEN ASKED ABOUT THIS BELIEF, THE ATTORNEY GENERAL REPLIED, "I DO NOT HAVE THAT INFORMATION. HOWEVER, IT WOULD BE RASH TO SAY THAT THE ARMY DID IT."</p></body></html>