<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0568"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0568"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BUENOS AIRES"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0568</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0568 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>BUENOS AIRES, 10 OCT 89 (TELAM) -- [TEXT] ARGENTINE FOREIGN MINISTER DOMINGO CAVALLO AND HIS PERUVIAN COUNTERPART GUILLERMO LARCO COX SIGNED THREE INTEGRATION AGREEMENTS TODAY IN TRUJILLO, LIBERTAD DEPARTMENT. CAVALLO SAID THAT THE AGREEMENTS "CLEARLY SHOW THE EFFORTS BEING MADE TOWARD COMMON GOAL" WHICH MEANS "MOVING AHEAD TO BUILD A GREAT LATIN AMERICAN NATION."</p><p>THE AGREEMENTS, WHICH WERE PREPARED BY THE FOREIGN MINISTRIES OF THE TWO COUNTRIES, WERE SIGNED TODAY BY THE TWO FOREIGN MINISTERS IN THE OLD HOUSE THAT BELONGED TO SIMON BOLIVIAR DURING THE TIME HE LIVED IN TRUJILLO. THE CEREMONY WAS HELD UNDER STRICT SECURITY MEASURES, SEEKING TO PREVENT SUBVERSIVE ACTIONS. SECURITY MEASURES WERE REINFORCED IN THE LAST FEW HOURS FOLLOWING AN ATTACK EARLY THIS MORNING 12 BLOCS FROM THE HOTEL WHERE THE DELEGATIONS ARE STAYING.</p><p>THE FIRST AGREEMENT CREATES THE POLITICAL COORDINATION AND INTEGRATION COMMITTEE. CAVALLO SAID THAT THIS IS AIMED AT "TAKING MORE ORDERLY STEPS IN THE EFFORTS WHICH HAVE BEEN MADE THROUGHOUT OUR HISTORY BECAUSE THE ARGENTINE AND PERUVIAN DESIRE FOR INTEGRATION HAS ROOTS AS OLD AS THE STRUGGLE FOR INDEPENDENCE."</p><p>THE SECOND AGREEMENT REFERS TO THE COORDINATION OF EFFORTS FOR THE PREVENTION AND REPRESSION OF DRUG TRAFFICKING. CAVALLO SAID: "THIS PROBLEM IS REACHING TERRIFYING DIMENSIONS BECAUSE ITS ECONOMIC POWER IS MIXED WITH TERRORIST AND SUBVERSIVE GROUPS. AS SUCH IT IS BECOMING A GROWING THREAT TO THE LATIN AMERICAN DEMOCRACIES."</p><p>IN A BRIEF SPEECH CAVALLO ALSO REFERRED TO THE THIRD AGREEMENT TO PREVENT DOUBLE TAXATION AMONG AIR AND MARITIME ENTERPRISES. HE SAID: "INTEGRATION REQUIRES GOOD TRANSPORTATION METHODS WITH WHICH TO BRING PEOPLE CLOSER TOGETHER" THUS MAKING "PROGRESS THROUGH CONCRETE MECHANISMS IN THE INTEGRATION PROCESS IN WHICH OUR COUNTRIES ARE INVOLVED."</p><p>LARCO COX SAID THAT THROUGH THESE AGREEMENTS "ARGENTINE PRESIDENT CARLOS MENEM HAS CONFIRMED, THROUGH HIS REPRESENTATIVE, HIS POLITICAL WILL TO AGREE" TO FIND SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEMS AFFECTING THE REGION BY SEEKING "NEW ROADS FOR UNDERSTANDING AND TO STRENGTHEN OUR ALREADY RICH BILATERAL RELATIONS."</p><p>A FEW HOURS BEFORE THIS CEREMONY, WHICH WAS ALSO ATTENDED BY UNDER SECRETARY JOSE LUIS FERNANDEZ VALONI AND AMBASSADOR JULIAN LICASTRO, TRUJILLO WAS SHAKEN AT 0400 BY FOUR POWERFUL DYNAMITE EXPLOTIONS (A FIFTH BOMB DID NOT EXPLODE) WHICH DESTROYED ABOUT HALF DOZEN OFFICES OF THE NATIONAL HOUSING ENTERPRISE.</p><p>THIS ENTERPRISE, WHICH OPERATES WITH STATE AND PRIVATE CAPITAL, IS LOCATED IN THE MONSERRATE DISTRICT WHERE THERE IS A HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FOR POOR PEOPLE. IT IS LOCATED 1 KM FROM THE PARADE GROUND, DOWNTOWN TRUJILLO, ACROSS FROM WHICH IS LOCATED THE TURISTA HOTEL. THIS IS THE HOTEL WHERE THE FOREIGN MINISTERS OF ARGENTINA, PERU, COLOMBIA, URUGUAY, BRAZIL, MEXICO AND VENEZUELA ARE STAYING.</p><p>THE EXPLOSIONS DID NOT CAUSE ANY CASUALTIES AND THE POLICE HOLD THE TUPAC AMARY REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ATTACK. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>