<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0190"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0190"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0190</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0190 (ADS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 26 APR 89 (EL DIARIO DE HOY) -- [TEXT] PRESIDENT-ELECT ALFREDO CRISTIANI YESTERDAY ANNOUNCED CHANGES IN THE ARMY'S STRATEGY TOWARD URBAN TERRORISM AND THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT'S [FMLN] DIPLOMATIC OFFENSIVE TO ISOLATE THE NEW GOVERNMENT ABROAD.</p><p>CRISTIANI SAID: "WE MUST ADJUST OUR POLITICAL-MILITARY STRATEGY AND MODIFY LAWS TO ALLOW US TO PROFESSIONALLY COUNTER THE FMLN'S STRATEGY."</p><p>DURING A NEWS CONFERENCE YESTERDAY MORNING, THE PRESIDENT-ELECT AND MEMBER OF THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA) PRESENTED THE BASIC VIEWPOINTS OF HIS ADMINISTRATION, WHICH WILL REPLACE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRAT NAPOLEON DUARTE'S ADMINISTRATION ON 1 JUNE.</p><p>AS THE PRESIDENT-ELECT WAS MAKING THIS STATEMENT, HE LEARNED ABOUT THE ASSASINATION OF ATTORNEY GENERAL ROBERTO GARCIA ALVARADO. [SENTENCE AS PUBLISHED] ALVARADO WAS KILLED BY A BOMB PRESUMABLY PLACED BY AN URBAN GUERRILLA GROUP ON TOP OF HIS ARMORED VEHICLE AS IT STOPPED AT AN INTERSECTION IN SAN MIGUELITO NEIGHBORHOOD, NORTH OF THE CAPITAL.</p><p>THE FMLN IS ABANDONING "GUERRILLA WARFARE TACTICS IN RURAL AREAS AND INCREASINGLY RESORTING TO THE ESTABLISHMENT OF CIVILIAN FRONTS IN THE MAIN CITIES AND TO URBAN TERRORISM IN AN ATTEMPT TO DESTABILIZE (THE GOVERNMENT). AT THE INTERNATIONAL LEVEL, THE GUERRILLAS ARE TRYING TO ELICIT NEGATIVE REACTION TOWARD THE NEW GOVERNMENT TO ISOLATE US POLITICALLY FROM THE WORLD," CRISTIANI SAID. VICE PRESIDENT-ELECT FRANCISCO MERINO ACCOMPANIED HIM.</p><p>HE ADDED: "OBVIOUSLY, IF WARRANTED BY THE SITUATION, WE MUST RESORT TO LEGAL MECHANISMS. SHOULD THE SITUATION BECOME DIFFICULT OR IMPOSSIBLE TO CONTROL, OUR HARSHER MEASURE WOULD BE TO DECLARE A STATE OF SIEGE."</p><p>SINCE EARLY APRIL, THE FMLN HAS BEEN CARRYING OUT A STRONG OFFENSIVE AGAINST PRIVATE COMPANIES AND THE BANKING SYSTEM AND HAS STEPPED UP SABOTAGE ACTIONS AGAINST TELEPHONE AND ELECTRICITY NETWORKS.</p><p>IN ADDITION TO THE ATTACK ON THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, THERE WERE OTHER ATTACKS, IN WHICH GUERRILLA DESERTER MIGUEL CASTELLANOS AND FRANCISCO PECORRINI, BOTH OF WHOM WERE RIGHT-WING IDEOLOGUES, WERE KILLED AND CARLOS MENDOZA, CHIEF EDITOR OF ANALISIS MAGAZINE, WAS WOUNDED. CASTELLANOS AND PECORRINI WERE CONNECTED WITH THAT MAGAZINE.</p></body></html>