<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1224"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1224"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1224</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1224 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 14 APR 90 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] SALVADORAN MILITARY SPOKESMEN REVEALED TODAY THAT A REBEL CELL, IN WHICH TWO HONDURAN WOMEN ARE MEMBERS, CLANDESTINELY INTRODUCED INTO THE COUNTRY, THROUGH HONDURAS, SEVERAL PISTOLS, THOUSANDS OF ROUNDS OF AMMUNITION, SOVIET RIFLES, MEDICINE, AND EXPLOSIVES FOR THE GUERRILLAS.</p><p>IN THE FIRST REPORT, THE MINISTRY OF DEFENSE SAID DEFINITIVELY THAT "THE WEAPONS CAME FROM NICARAGUA, THROUGH HONDURAS, DESTINED FOR TERRORISTS IN EL SALVADOR."</p><p>THE SECOND MILITARY REPORT ON THIS MATTER SAID THAT "THE NICARAGUAN PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION RESULTS HAVE NOW MADE STEPPED-UP GUN-RUNNING FROM THAT COUNTRY A SHORT TERM POSSIBILITY, NOT ONLY FOR OUR COUNTRY BUT FOR OTHER COUNTRIES IN THE CENTRAL AMERICAN REGION.</p><p>IN A COMMUNIQUE, THE SALVADORAN DEFENSE MINISTRY SAID THAT THE ARMS AND MEDICINE WERE INTRODUCED INTO EL SALVADOR IN 19 TRIPS OVER A YEAR'S TIME FROM SAN PEDRO SULA (HONDURAS).</p><p>THE MILITARY SOURCE SAID THAT THE REBEL CELL, CONSISTING OF SALVADORANS TITO OLIVIO DUBON AND FELICIANO GARCIA SORTO AND HONDURAN WOMEN ADILIA AND AMINTA DUBON RAMIREZ, "HAD THE MISSION" OF SECRETLY TRANSPORTING ARMS AND MEDICINE INTO THE COUNTRY.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE MILITARY COMMUNIQUE, 155 AK-47 RIFLES, 45 PISTOLS, 60,000 ROUNDS FOR VARIOUS CALIBER RIFLES, 126 GRENADES FOR RPG-7'S, MEDICINE, AND MATERIALS FOR MAKING EXPLOSIVES WERE CLANDESTINELY BROUGHT INTO EL SALVADOR BETWEEN APRIL 1989 AND 7 APRIL 1990.</p><p>TITO DUBON AND GARCIA SORTO WERE ARRESTED ON 7 APRIL IN COLOLACA MUNICIPALITY, IN HONDURAS' LEMPIRA DEPARTMENT, WHILE TRYING TO INTRODUCE THE ARMS SHIPMENT INTO THE COUNTRY INSIDE THE SECRET COMPARTMENTS OF A TRUCK.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE MILITARY INFORMATION, THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) CELL USED TWO DIFFERENT ROUTES FOR THE TRIPS, DEPARTING FROM THE CITY OF SAN PEDRO SULA.</p><p>"ON ROUTE 1, 12 TRIPS WERE MADE BETWEEN JUNE 1989 AND 7 APRIL 1990. ROUTE 2 WAS USED FOR THREE TRIPS BETWEEN APRIL AND MAY 1989 TO A PLACE LOCATED IN MERCEDES, OCOTEPEQUE DEPARTMENT, WHERE THE FMLN TERRORISTS PICKED UP THE WEAPONS AND OTHER WAR MATERIEL," THE DEFENSE MINISTRY REPORTED.</p><p>THE REPORT DOES NOT SPECIFY THE ROUTE USED FOR THE REMAINING FOUR TRIPS, IN WHICH THE SAME FOUR PEOPLE TOOK PART.</p><p>THE TWO HONDURAN WOMEN, NOW UNDER DETENTION, GAVE THE SALVADORANS FALSE DOCUMENTATION TO PASS AS HONDURANS, ACCORDING TO THE MILITARY INVESTIGATIONS.</p></body></html>