<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1282"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1282"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="QUITO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1282</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1282 (BOEING)</p><p>QUITO, 14 MAY 90 (RADIO QUITO) -- [TEXT] ERNESTO BUENANO AND JAIME GALARZA, AUTHORS OF THE BOOKS PLANNED CRIME AND WHO KILLED ROLDOS, ARE SCHEDULED TO TESTIFY ON TUESDAY, 15 MAY, BEFORE THE CONGRESS' MULTIPARTY COMMISSION THAT IS INVESTIGATING THE DEATH OF FORMER PRESIDENT JAIME ROLDOS AGUILERA.</p><p>ERNESTO BUENANO SAID THAT IN TOMORROW'S MEETING HE WILL REVEAL THE NAMES OF THOSE INVOLVED IN JAIME ROLDOS AGUILERA'S DEATH, AND HE WILL PRESENT THE NECESSARY DOCUMENTS. HE ALSO REQUESTED THAT THE COMMISSION MEETING BE HELD IN PUBLIC.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [BUENANO] WE WANT TO THANK REPORTERS LIKE YOU BECAUSE WE HAVE BEEN STRUGGLING FOR EIGHT YEARS. WE HAVE DEDICATED EIGHT YEARS TO INVESTIGATING PRESIDENT ROLDOS' ACCIDENT, AND IT WAS NOT UNTIL TODAY THAT WE WERE SUMMONED TO TESTIFY BEFORE THE MULTIPARTY COMMISSION.</p><p>THIS STRUGGLE [WORDS INDISTINCT] IS NOTHING BUT THE RESULTS OF THE EFFORTS EXERTED MY MANY REPORTERS LIKE YOU, WHO HAVE HELPED US SO SELFLESSLY AND WHO HAVE NOT TRIED TO WITHHOLD THE INFORMATION. I BELIEVE THAT THIS DESERVES PRAISE AND I AM GRATEFUL FOR THIS.</p><p>IN REGARD TO WHAT WE WILL SAY TOMORROW, WE WILL PROVE TO THE COUNTRY THAT THE SO-CALLED HUMAN FAILURE [WHICH REPORTEDLY CAUSED THE ACCIDENT] IS A LIE. SECOND, WE WILL PROVE HOW THE CIA ACTS ON THE INTERNATIONAL LEVEL; WHO ITS AGENTS ARE IN ECUADOR AND THEIR NAMES; AND WHAT CAUSED THE PRESIDENTIAL PLANE CRASH, WHICH WE HAVE TERMED A HOMICIDE. WE WILL TELL THE COUNTRY WHO THE MAIN POLITICAL CONSPIRATOR WAS AGAINST PRESIDENT ROLDOS. WE WILL PROVE THIS WITH DOCUMENTS BECAUSE WE WILL NOT BE TALKING ABOUT [WORDS INDISTINCT]. WE WILL REVEAL WHAT THIS POLITICAL CONSPIRATOR SAID BEFORE THE PRESIDENT'S DEATH AND AFTER HIS ASSASSINATION. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>