<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0130"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0130"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0130</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0130 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 16 MAR 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] IN THE PRESENCE OF SOME 50 MEMBERS OF THE PARTIES THAT COMPRISE IT, THE CENTER-RIGHT POLITICAL COALITION COALICION POLITICA DE CENTRO DERECHA HAS BEEN OFFICIALLY FORMED. THE CEREMONY, HELD AT THE NATIONAL PARTY HEADQUARTERS IN THE OLD AND VENERABLE FERNANDEZ CONCHA CLUB, WAS PRESIDED OVER BY SERGIO ONOFRE JARPA, PATRICIO PHILLIPS, AND JAIME TORMO.</p><p>DURING THE CEREMONY, RADICAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY HEAD JAIME TORMO SAID THAT THE THREE PARTIES WILL NOW START ANALYZING THEIR COMMON POSITIONS, UNDER THE EFFECTIVE COORDINATION OF NATIONAL RENEWAL SECRETARY ANDRES ALLAMAND.</p><p>JORGE MARTINEZ, OF THE NATIONAL PARTY THEN READ A JOINT DECLARATION. THE THREE PARTIES REPORTED THAT ONE OF THEIR GOALS IS TO RESTORE THE MIDDLE CLASS'S DIGNITY AND ITS OPPORTUNITIES FOR JOBS, BECAUSE THIS CLASS HAS ALWAYS BEEN THE GREATEST SPONSOR OF NATIONAL INTELLECTUAL, MATERIAL, AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT.</p><p>ANOTHER GOAL IS TO PREVENT THE COALITION FROM BECOMING A SUPER PARTY OR MERGING WITH OTHER PARTIES. THIS COALITION WILL CONTINUE TO EXIST AS SUCH, AND ITS OBJECTIVE IS TO PROMOTE COOPERATION, BOTH AMONG MEMBER PARTIES AND WITH PARTIES THAT MAY WANT TO JOIN THEM IN THE FUTURE.</p><p>THE FIRST OFFICIAL ACT OF THE CENTER-RIGHT POLITICAL COALITION WAS TO SEND A CABLE TO U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH TO POINT OUT THE SERIOUS CONSEQUENCES OF THE MEASURES THE UNITED STATES HAS ADOPTED AGAINST CHILEAN FRUITS.</p><p>THE CABLE, WHICH WAS READ BY ANDRES ALLAMAND, STATED:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] IN VIEW OF THE GROUNDLESS AND EXAGGERATED MEASURES TAKEN BY SOME MEMBERS OF YOUR ADMINISTRATION AGAINST CHILEAN FRUIT EXPORTS, WE CALL YOUR ATTENTION TO THE FACT THAT THESE MEASURES WILL RUIN A LARGE SECTOR OF CHILEAN PRIVATE ENTEPRISE, WILL LEAVE HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF WORKERS JOBLESS, AND WILL CAUSE A SERIOUS IMBALANCE IN OUR BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. THESE MEASURES WILL SERIOUSLY AFFECT THE GOOD RELATIONS THE CHILEAN PEOPLE HAVE ALWAYS HAD WITH THE U.S. PEOPLE, AND THEY WILL DEEPLY INJURE THOSE WHO, LIKE US, DEFEND FREE ECONOMY AND FREE TRADE.</p><p>MOST SERIOUS, HOWEVER, IS THE FACT THAT THESE MEASURES APPARENTLY REWARD THE TERRORIST ACTIVITIES AGAINST CHILE, BECAUSE THEY HELP THE TERRORISTS ACHIEVE THEIR GOALS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE CABLE ADDS THAT CHILE HAS EARNED JUSTIFIED PRESTIGE AS A SERIOUS AND EFFECTIVE EXPORTER; THAT IT HAS BEEN HONORING ITS FOREIGN DEBT AT A SACRIFICE; AND THAT IT HAS COOPERATED IN SEVERAL PUBLIC WELFARE PROJECTS SPONSORED BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT. IN VIEW OF ALL THAT, THE COALITION REQUESTS AN URGENT SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEM.</p></body></html>