<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0075"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0075"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-02-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0075</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0075 (NOSC)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 7 FEB 89 (REUTER) -- [TEXT] A BOMB BLAST DAMAGED A TELEPHONE OFFICE TODAY IN THE NORTHERN CITY OF SAN PEDRO SULA. A LEFTIST GROUP, WHICH CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR AN ATTACK ON A U.S. MILITARY CONVOY LAST WEEK CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS ATTACK.</p><p>THE BOMB, MADE UP OF DYNAMITE AND A FUSE, EXPLODED JUST BEFORE DAWN IN THE HONDUTEL [HONDURAN TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENTERPRISE] OFFICE IN SAN PEDRO SULA, 190 KM NORTH OF THIS CAPITAL.</p><p>THE EXPLOSION DAMAGED FURNITURE, FOUR TELEPHONES, AND SHATTERED WINDOWS, BUT NOBODY WAS INJURED.</p><p>LEAFLETS FOUND IN THE RUBBLE STATED THAT A LEFTIST GROUP WAS RESPONSIBLE BOTH FOR THE BOMB AS WELL AS THE ATTACK ON A U.S. MILITARY CONVOY LAST WEEK IN THE HONDURAN NORTHERN MOUNTAIN REGION.</p><p>ALTHOUGH NO CASUALTIES WERE REPORTED, ONE OF THE VEHICLES IN THE U.S. CONVOY WAS HIT BY TWO BULLETS. UNTIL TODAY NOBODY HAD CLAIMED CREDIT FOR THAT ATTACK.</p><p>"THE JACOBO CARCOMO COMMAND OF THE MORAZANIST PATRIOTIC FRONT [FPM] ATTACKED A U.S. CONVOY WITH M-16 RIFLE-FIRE," THE LEAFLETS READ. CARCOMO WAS A HONDURAN LEFT-WING AUTHOR AT THE BEGINNING OF THE 20TH CENTURY.</p><p>THE FPM, NAMED AFTER A CENTRAL AMERICAN LEADER OF THE LAST CENTURY, HAS CLAIMED CREDIT FOR SEVERAL GUERRILLA ATTACKS IN THE PAST.</p><p>HONDURAS HAS BEEN GRIPPED BY A WAVE OF VIOLENCE THIS YEAR, INCLUDING THE ASSASSINATIONS OF A FORMER ARMED FORCES COMMANDER, A COMMANDER OF THE ANTI-SANDINIST REBELS (SUPPORTED BY THE UNITED STATES), AND A LAWYER OF AN ALLEGED DRUG TRAFFICKING TSAR.</p><p>PRESIDENT JOSE AZCONA HAS CALLED FOR NATIONAL DIALOGUE STARTING THIS WEEK WITH THE GOVERNMENT, THE OPPOSITION PARTIES, LABOR UNIONS, BUSINESSMEN, AND OTHER GROUPS TO TRY TO CURB THE SUDDEN SURGE OF VIOLENCE.</p><p>HONDURAS, A CLOSE U.S. ALLY, HAS TRADITIONALLY BEEN A PEACEFUL COUNTRY IN A REGION STRICKEN BY INTERNAL CONFLICTS.</p></body></html>