<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0231"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0231"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0231</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0231 (ADS)</p><p>LA PAZ, 2 JUN 89 (LA RED PANAMERICANA) -- [TEXT] GENERAL MARIO MOLINA, CHIEF OF THE BOLIVIAN POLICE, HAS ADMITTED THAT THE COUNTRY IS SUFFERING THE EFFECTS OF PSYCHOLOGICAL TERRORISM PRACTICED BY EXTREMIST GROUPS WHICH HAVE NOT YET BEEN OFFICIALLY IDENTIFIED. THE POLICE CHIEF REQUESTED THE COOPERATION OF THE CITIZENRY BY REPORTING ANY INFORMATION ON EXTREMISTS. HE GUARANTEED THAT ANYONE REPORTING ON EXTREMISTS WILL REMAIN ANONYMOUS.</p><p>GEN MOLINA SAID THAT THE POLICE CONTINUE TO INVESTIGATE THE MURDER OF TWO AMERICAN CITIZENS WITH THE AID OF U.S. EXPERTS WHO ARE GIVING BOLIVIA POLICE LOGISTIC AND SCIENTIFIC SUPPORT. THEIR SUPPORT, HE SAID, ALLOWS THE BOLIVIA POLICE THEIR OWN LIMITATIONS.</p><p>THE POLICE CHIEF SAID THAT THE [WORDS INDISTINCT] OBJECTS FOUND IN THE SCENE OF THE MURDER HAVE BEEN SENT TO WASHINGTON FOR BALLISTIC AND LABORATORY EXAMINATIONS. MEANWHILE, THE POLICE ARE PREPARING THE IDENTI-KIT OF THE ALLEGED MURDERERS BASED ON THE DESCRIPTION OF WITNESSES. THE POLICE HAVE SO FAR OBTAINED 150 UNSWORN DECLARATIONS, 50 WRITTEN DECLARATIONS, WHILE THE PERSONAL [WORD INDISTINCT] CONTINUE. [PASSAGE INDISTINCT]</p></body></html>