<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0118"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0118"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-05-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0118</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0118 (BELLCORE)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 20 MAY 88 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] GUATEMALA'S CLANDESTINE ORGANIZATION "SECRET ANTICOMMUNIST ARMY" (ESA) HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR WEDNESDAY'S TERRORIST ATTACK AGAINST THE RESIDENCE AND OFFICE OF ALEKSANDR TRUSHIN, TASS CORRESPONDENT IN GUATEMALA.</p><p>AN ESA BULLETIN DISTRIBUTED TO THE NEWS MEDIA STATES THAT THE ATTACK AGAINST THE SOVIET NEWS AGENCY "WAS TO EXPRESS REJECTION OF THE SOCIALIST-LEANING MEASURES" ADOPTED BY THE VINICIO CEREZO AREVALO GOVERNMENT.</p><p>THE DOCUMENT EXPLAINS THAT "THIS IS A WARNING," BECAUSE IF ARREST WARRANTS ARE ISSUED FOR THE FIVE CIVILIANS INVOLVED IN THE ABORTIVE 11 MAY COUP, "ACTIONS WILL BE UNDERTAKEN AGAINST MEMBERS OF THE GUATEMALAN CHRISTIAN DEMOCRACY," WHICH IS THE RULING PARTY.</p><p>THE ATTACK, CARRIED OUT WITH TWO BOMBS, WAS PERPETRATED AGAINST THE SOVIET NEWSMAN'S HOME, LOCATED IN A RESIDENTIAL AREA SOUTH OF THIS CITY. THIS OCCURRED ON 18 MAY.</p><p>THE EXPLOSIVE DEVICES WERE HURLED FROM AN AUTOMOBILE. IT DESTROYED AN ENTRANCE AND WINDOWS OF THE HOME AS WELL AS TRUSHIN'S CAR. HOWEVER, NEITHER TRUSHIN NOR HIS WIFE WERE INJURED.</p><p>THE COMMUNIQUE BY ESA, A PARAMILITARY ORGANIZATION THAT EMERGED IN THE 1960'S, ADDS THAT IT "WILL NOT REST UNTIL THE COMMUNIST AGGRESSION HAS BEEN STOPPED AND ITS DEFEAT ACHIEVED."</p><p>IT ALSO SAYS THAT "THE CURRENT GOVERNMENT IS PROMOTING REVOLUTION. IF IT WANTS WAR, IT WILL HAVE WAR BECAUSE WE ARE READY TO DIE AND TO FIGHT AGAINST COMMUNISM ANY TIME."</p><p>THE DOCUMENT, SIGNED BY COMMANDERS "UBICO TOROKZIK" AND "RAFAEL NETANAGIUHI," SAYS THAT DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL HECTOR GRAMEJO, FOREIGN MINISTER ALFONSO CABRERA, AND PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO AREVALO PLANNED THE COUP.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THIS COMMUNIQUE, IN THE RECENT TRIP TO CUBA BY RAQUEL BLANDON, WIFE OF PRESIDENT CEREZO AREVALO, SHE MET WITH LIBYAN AHMAD MUSTAFA [NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED] "TO ASK HIM FOR ECONOMIC SUPPORT FOR THE NEXT GENERAL ELECTIONS IN 1990."</p><p>ESA IS OPPOSED TO THE ISSUANCE OF ARREST WARRANTS AGAINST MARIO DAVID GARCIA, DANILO ROCA, NICOLAS BUONAFINA, GUSTAVO ANZUETO VIELMAN, AND MARIO CASTEJON. THESE ARE THE CIVILIANS WHOM THE CEREZO AREVALO GOVERNMENT HAS ACCUSED OF INVOLVEMENT IN THE COUP ATTEMPT.</p><p>THIS GROUP STRESSES THAT THE ATTEMPT WAS A "PLOY PROMOTED BY GEN HECTOR GRAMEJO. THAT IS THE BASEST THING THAT THE DEFENSE MINISTER COULD HAVE DONE: TO SELL HIMSELF AND HIS MILITARY COLLEAGUES."</p><p>ESA MEMBERS DESCRIBE THEMSELVES AS "GUATEMALA'S PROGRESSIVE PATRIOTS," AND THEY REAFFIRM THAT THE ATTACK ON THE TASS MISSION "WAS A WARNING."</p></body></html>