<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0129"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0129"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0129</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0129 (BELLCORE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 15 MAR 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] THE PEACE PROPOSAL PRESENTED BY THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] GENERAL COMMAND SPARKED A DEBATE OF UNPRECEDENTED BROADNESS AND DURATION TO ATTAIN A NATIONAL AGREEMENT TO SOLVE THE CONFLICT. THE PROGRESS ACHIEVED MUST BE INCREASED, STRENGTHENING THE UNITY AND BROAD SUPPORT OF SECTORS THAT ADVOCATE PEACE WITH SOCIAL JUSTICE AND NATIONAL INDEPENDENCE.</p><p>IN THIS PROCESS, WE HAVE SHOWN FLEXIBILITY TOWARD PROPOSALS PRESENTED BY THE GOVERNMENT AND THE POLITICAL PARTIES. NEVERTHELESS, THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY (PDC), ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE], AND THE MILITARY HIGH COMMAND HAVE CLOSED THE DOOR TO THE POSSIBILITY OF HOLDING ELECTIONS WITHOUT WAR, IN CONDITIONS OF CLEANLINESS AND EQUALITY THAT WOULD TURN THEM INTO AN OPPORTUNITY TO SOLVE THE CONFLICT. THEY INSISTED ON HOLDING THE ELECTIONS AS PART OF MILITARY PLAN THAT TRIES TO APPEAR TO BE DEMOCRATIC TO JUSTIFY TO THE U.S. CONGRESS WHY THERE SHOULD BE CONTINUED SHIPMENTS OF WEAPONS AND MORE MILLIONS IN AID.</p><p>THERE WILL BE NEW ELECTION FRAUD AND DISPUTES BETWEEN THOSE WHO MURDERED MONSIGNOR [OSCAR ARNULFO] ROMERO AND MASSACRED 70,000 SALVADORANS, AND THE VORACIOUS CORRUPT DEVOURERS OF MILLIONS WHO HAVE MORTGAGED THE COUNTRY'S SOVEREIGNTY. A FRAUD WILL TAKE PLACE IN A MILITARIZED COUNTRY, WHERE MORE THAN HALF OF THE MUNICIPAL OFFICES ARE NOT FUNCTIONING, AND WHERE THE MILITARY MANIPULATES THE BALLOT BOXES, VOTES, AND RESULTS -- AND THEY WILL DO IT AGAIN, AS THEY HAVE ALWAYS DONE.</p><p>WITHIN THIS FRAMEWORK, WE HAVE THE LEGITIMATE RIGHT TO SUPPORT THE PEOPLE'S FEELINGS AND REJECT THE 19 MARCH ELECTIONS, URGING THEM TO FIGHT AND REJECT THE ATTEMPTS TO TURN THE ELECTIONS INTO AN INSTRUMENT TO CONTINUE THE WAR, URGING THEM NOT TO VOTE OR TO VOID THEIR BALLOT. THE ELECTIONS WILL ATTEMPT TO LEGITIMIZE THE WAR, AND THEY WILL BE HELD IN THE MIDST OF A WAR. THE ARMED FORCES WILL BE BOMBING CIVILIANS; THE POLICE WILL BE CAPTURING, TORTURING, AND ASSASSINATING; THE JAILS WILL AGAIN BE FILLED WITH POLITICAL PRISONERS. PSYCHOLOGICAL WARFARE WILL BE LAUNCHED BY THE MILITARY HIGH COMMAND BY WAVING THE SPECTER OF GENOCIDE OVER THE POPULATION; THIS AMID THE DRAMATIC POVERTY OF THE DEPRIVED MASSES. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>