<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0966"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0966"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0966</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0966 (SRI)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 11 DEC 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] HAS SEIZED THE TOWN OF TONACATEPEQUE, DESTROYED THE GARRISON, SABOTAGED THE MAYOR'S OFFICE AND ANTEL [NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS] INSTALLATIONS, AND FREED CIVILIAN PRISONERS OF THE PARAMILITARY FORCES. THE PRISONERS WERE RESIDENTS OF TONACATEPEQUE WHO HAD BEEN TAKEN PRISONER BY THE TROOPS. THEY HAVE NOW BEEN RELEASED BY THE FMLN.</p><p>THE FMLN FORCES SEIZED 30 RIFLES AND WAR SUPPLIES. CASUALTIES INFLICTED ON THE PARAMILITARY FORCES IN TONACATEPEQUE HAVE BEEN ESTIMATED AT 10 DEAD AND 15 WOUNDED.</p><p>THE FIGHTING WITH THE PARAMILITARY FORCES IN TONACATEPEQUE BEGAN ON 10 DECEMBER AT 2300 AND THE FMLN TOOK CONTROL OF CITY AT 0200 TODAY, MONDAY. DURING THIS ACTION, OUR FORCES ATTACKED ENEMY POSITIONS WHICH FORM PART OF THE DEFENSE RING OF THE ILOPANGO AIR BASE. THE FIGHTING LASTED 3 HOURS AND OUR FORCES TOOK COMPLETE CONTROL OF THE TOWN AT 0200.</p><p>THE AIR FORCE PROVIDED SUPPORT WITH AC-47 PLANES, (HUEY 500) HELICOPTER GUNSHIPS AND OTHER AIRCRAFT, WHICH INDISCRIMINATELY BOMBED AND STRAFED THE POPULATION.</p><p>THE RESULTS ARE AS FOLLOWS: 25 CASUALTIES AND WAR MATERIAL CONSISTING OF THE FOLLOWING: 30 RIFLES, INCLUDING M-14, CZECHOSLOVAK-MADE G-3, GARAND, AND OTHER TYPES. IN ALL, 30 RIFLES WERE SEIZED IN THE CITY. WE ALSO SEIZED TWO BATTERIES FOR MILITARY RADIOS, 11,000 ROUNDS FOR RIFLES -- WE REPEAT, 11,000 ROUNDS FOR RIFLES -- 5 CLAYMORE MINES; GRENADES FOR RIFLES; 75 CLIPS FOR RIFLES; CANTEENS; AND OTHER MILITARY ITEMS LIKE HARNESSES, A LARGE NUMBER OF UNIFORMS, A SUBSTANTIAL QUANTITY OF MEDICINE, BOOTS, KNAPSACKS, AND OTHER WAR SUPPLIES IN ALTOMAR DISTRICT IN TONACATEPEQUE.</p><p>AT 0200 OUR FORCES FINISHED SEIZING CONTROL OF TONACATEPEQUE, WHICH IS BARELY 7 KM FROM THE RUNWAY OF ILOPANGO AIR FORCE BASE. THE PERSONNEL AT THE ENEMY BASE HAD BEEN PERSECUTING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION AND HAD CAPTURED THREE RESIDENTS WHO WERE RELEASED BY OUR FORCES WHEN THEY OPENED THE DOORS TO THE JAIL WHERE THE PRISONERS WER BEING HELD. AFTER SEIZING CONTROL OF THE TOWN, OUR FORCES TOTALLY DESTROYED THE GARRISON AND LOCAL COMMAND POST. THEY ALSO PARTIALLY DESTROYED THE MAYOR'S OFFICE AND THE ANTEL INSTALLATIONS.</p><p>THIS HAS BEEN A REPORT FROM TONACATEPEQUE. THE STRATEGIC SIEGE OF SAN SALVADOR HAS BEEN EXPANDED WITH THIS NEW ACTION -- THE SEIZURE OF TONACATEPEQUE, WHICH IS AN IMPORTANT POSITION IN THE DEFENSE RING OF ILOPANGO AIR FORCE BASE, LOCATED 7 KM SOUTH OF THE CITY.</p></body></html>