<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1033"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1033"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1033</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1033 (TRW)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 28 DEC 89 (LA PRENSA GRAFICA) -- [TEXT] FATHER JOSE MARIA TOJEIRA S.J. [SOCIETY OF JESUS], THE JESUIT PROVINCIAL SPOKESMAN FOR CENTRAL AMERICA, HAS RELEASED A NOTE DENYING INEXACT REPORTS ON THE CASE OF THE MURDERED JESUIT PRIESTS. HE SAID THAT THEY NOT WERE MARXIST GUERRILLA SYMPATHIZERS.</p><p>THE NOTE READS AS FOLLOWS:</p><p>23 DECEMBER 1989</p><p>PROV. 264/89</p><p>DIRECTOR DUTRIZ</p><p>DIRECTOR OF LA PRENSA GRAFICA</p><p>SAN SALVADOR</p><p>DEAR MR.DIRECTOR:</p><p>THE NEWSPAPER WHICH YOU DIRECT, ON 21 DECEMBER 1989, PUBLISHED ON PAGES 6 AND 7 TWO ARTICLES ON THE SIX JESUIT PRIESTS THAT WERE MURDERED ON 16 NOVEMBER. THESE ARTICLES ARE WRITTEN IN SUCH A WAY THAT THEY DISTORT THE REALITY OF THE CASE OR THEY INCORRECTLY DESCRIBE THE ACTIVITY OF THE SOCIETY OF JESUS.</p><p>ON PAGE 6 AN ARTICLE ENTITLED "FRATRICIDAL STRUGGLE," WHICH IS SIGNED BY MR. LUIS PAZOS, SAYS THAT "THE PRIESTS WERE MARXIST GUERRILLA SYMPATHIZERS" AND THAT THE UNIVERSITY IN WHICH THEY WORK "IS KNOWN IN EL SALVADOR AS AN INTELLECTUAL CENTER FOR GUERRILLAS."</p><p>THE ARTICLE SPEAKS OF "THESE PRIESTS' NEOMARXIST-PHILOSOPHICAL POSITION WHICH IS CONTRARY TO CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE."</p><p>I WISH TO STATE THAT:</p><p>1. THE MURDERED PRIESTS WERE NOT SYMPATHIZERS OF THE MARXIST GUERRILLAS. THEY ONLY TRIED TO TALK WITH THE DIFFERENT SECTORS IN CONFLICT IN EL SALVADOR, SEEKING TO MEDIATE IN AN EFFORT TO FIND PEACE WITH JUSTICE.</p><p>2. PERHAPS SOME PEOPLE IN EL SALVADOR CONSIDER THE UCA [CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY] AS AN INTELLECTUAL CENTER FOR GUERRILLAS, BUT THERE ARE ALSO MANY PEOPLE WHO THINK THAT THE UCA COURAGEOUSLY FOLLOWS THE CHURCH'S SOCIAL DOCTRINE. THIS STATEMENT, IF MADE WITHOUT THE RESERVATION THAT IT ONLY REPRESENTS THE VIEWS OF A GROUP OF PEOPLE AND THE FACT THAT THE ARTICLE FORGETS TO MENTION THE MANY OTHERS DO NOT BELIEVE, IS IN OUR OPINION A MANIPULATION OF THE TRUTH.</p><p>3. THE POSITION OF THE PRIESTS WAS NOT "NEOMARXIST" IN THE PHILOSOPHICAL FIELD. FATHER ELLACURIA CAME FROM THE SCHOOL OF THE SPANISH PHILOSOPHER ZUBIRI, WHOSE THOUGHTS WERE DEEPLY ROOTED IN CHRISTIAN PHILOSOPHY. FATHER AMANDO LOPEZ WROTE HIS DOCTORAL THESIS ON THE SPANISH PHILOSOPHER AND PRIEST AMOR RUIBAL. THE "ZUBIRIAN" INCLINATION OF FATHER ELLACURIA WAS INTERNATIONALLY KNOWN IN MOST PHILOSOPHICAL SCHOOLS. THOSE WHO ACCUSE THE MURDERED PRIESTS OF HAVING NEOMARXIST PHILOSOPHICAL POSITIONS ARE PUBLICLY ACKNOWLEDGING THEIR IGNORANCE.</p><p>4. STATEMENTS SUCH AS THESE, WHICH WERE REPEATED IN OTHER MEDIA BEFORE THE MURDER OF THE PRIESTS, PARTLY PROMOTED THEIR MURDER. WE THEREFORE CONSIDER THEIR REPETITION TO BE A VERY SERIOUS MATTER.</p><p>ON PAGE 7, AND IN AN EDITORIAL ARTICLE, THE NEWSPAPER MENTIONS THE NEED TO AVOID "THE DAMAGE CAUSED BY PRIVATE PSEUDO-INVESTIGATIONS, WHEREVER THEY MIGHT COME FROM." ON THIS STATEMENT I WANT TO SIMPLY ADD THAT IN A CASE LIKE THIS THE INJURED PARTY HAS EVERY RIGHT, BOTH IN EL SALVADOR AND IN ANY OTHER PART OF THE WORLD, TO CONDUCT ITS OWN PRIVATE INVESTIGATION. FURTHERMORE, UNLESS PUBLICLY AND IRREFUTABLY PROVEN HARMFUL, NO ONE HAS THE RIGHT TO CONDEMN IT "IN ADVANCE" SAYING THAT IT IS PLAYING DETECTIVES.</p><p>I BEG OF YOU MR. DIRECTOR, BASED ON THE RIGHT TO REPLY AND THE JUSTICE THAT THE MURDERED JESUITS AND THOSE WHO BELIEVE IN THEM DESERVE, THAT YOU PUBLISH THIS CLARIFICATIONS IN YOUR NEWSPAPER WITH THE SAME DESIRE TO REACH YOUR READERS AS THOSE WHO WROTE THE ARTICLES.</p><p>YOURS TRULY.</p><p>FATHER JOSE MARIA TOJEIRA</p><p>SOCIETY OF JESUS PROVINCIAL."</p></body></html>