<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0486"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0486"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0486</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0486 (UMASS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 15 SEP 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 2) -- [TEXT] COLOMBIAN AIR FORCE [FAC] COMMANDOS AND PILOTS TODAY RECEIVED ORDERS TO STAND READY TO TAKE OFF, INTERCEPT, CAPTURE, OR SHOOT DOWN UNIDENTIFIED OR HOSTILE AIRCRAFT FLYING OVER THE NATION'S TERRITORY. THE GOVERNMENT ADOPTED THESE MEASURES IN CONNECTION WITH THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING. HERE IS A REPORT BY AMPARO MONTON:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MONTON] THE ORDER WAS ISSUED BY THE COLOMBIAN AIR FORCE COMMANDS, WHICH ALSO DECIDED TO USE GROUND-TO-AIR MISSILES AND OTHER WEAPONS ABOARD FAC AIRCRAFT. ACCORDING TO THE INSTRUCTIONS MANUAL SENT TO ALL AIR BASES, ORDERS ARE GIVEN TO CAPTURE, DESTROY, OR SHOOT DOWN PLANES IN 11 INSTANCES, WHICH INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING: WHEN PLANES FLY OVER FORBIDDEN OR RESTRICTED AREAS; IN THE EVENT OF UNAUTHORIZED LANDINGS; WHEN THE [WORD INDISTINCT] DO NOT ESTABLISH RADIO CONTACT WITH THE INTERCEPTOR PLANE FLYING OVER THEM; WHEN AIRCRAFT LAND IN PLACES NOT AUTHORIZED BY THE CIVIL AERONAUTICS OFFICE; WHEN THEY LAND ON CLANDESTINE AIRSTRIPS.</p><p>INSTRUCTIONS WERE ALSO ISSUED TO ALL AIR COMMANDS TO KEEP TWO ARMORED AIRCRAFT ON ALERT AT ALL TIMES EITHER ON THE GROUND OR IN THE AIR. THE ONLY EVENT IN WHICH THE SHOOTING DOWN OF A HOSTILE AIRCRAFT MUST NOT BE CONSIDERED IS WHEN SUCH AN ACTION WOULD ENDANGER INNOCENT PEOPLE OR OCCUPIED BUILDINGS.</p><p>IN ADDITION, THE FAC COMMAND DIVIDED THE PROCEDURE INTO FOUR PHASES, NAMELY: DETECTION, IDENTIFICATION, INTERCEPTION, AND DESTRUCTION. THESE MEASURES WILL APPLY TO ALL SUSPICIOUS-LOOKING AIRCRAFT, INCLUDING PLANES OF COLOMBIAN OR FOREIGN REGISTRY. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>