<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0307"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0307"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0307</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0307 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 20 JUL 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI] [TEXT] SALVADORAN PEOPLE: I ADDRESS YOU ON THIS OCCASION TO GIVE YOU MY FIRST REPORT ON THE STATE OF THE COUNTRY. I MAKE THIS REPORT 50 DAYS AFTER ASSUMING POWER. AT THIS TIME I WANT TO TELL YOU THE TRUTH; I WANT TELL YOU EXACTLY WHAT OUR SITUATION IS SO THAT WE WILL ALL UNDERSTAND WHAT WE MUST DO IN THE FUTURE. EVERY SALVADORAN MUST SHARE IN THE SACRIFICE AND EFFORT. THOSE OF US WHO HAVE A BIT MUST SHOW SOLIDARITY WITH THOSE WHO HAVE NOTHING OR VERY LITTLE.</p><p>THE SITUATION IS CRITICAL, BUT WE MUST CONFRONT IT. THAT IS WHY WE HAVE A GOVERNMENT: TO SOLVE PROBLEMS. WE ARE WILLING TO DO THIS RESPONSIBLY, BECAUSE WE KNOW THAT DOING NOTHING WOULD MEAN A GREATER CRISIS FOR THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND WOULD SINK OUR HOMELAND EVEN DEEPER IN THE BLACK ABYSS.</p><p>WE KNOW THAT THERE ARE MANY CONCERNS; WE HAVE HEARD DIFFERENT GROUPS ASKING THAT THE GOVERNMENT STATE WHAT IT IS PLANNING TO DO TO SOLVE THE PROBLEMS. I WOULD LIKE TO STATE, HOWEVER, THAT WE PREFER TO ACT CALMLY, STUDY THE PROBLEM IN DEPTH, AND FIND A SOLUTION THAT WILL TRULY SOLVE THE PROBLEM. WE WOULD RATHER DO THIS THAN MAKE A RASH DECISION AND MAKE A MISTAKE. THIS IS A TRULY DIFFICULT TASK.</p><p>BECAUSE I WANT TO TELL YOU IN ALL HONESTY WHAT IS HAPPENING IN THE COUNTRY, I WISH TO TOUCH ON THE THREE MAJOR AREAS THAT CREATE CONCERN AND THAT I FEEL THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE SHOULD KNOW ABOUT.</p><p>FIRST, LET US TALK ABOUT PEACE. SINCE THIS GOVERNMENT WAS SWORN AND INDISCRIMINATE MURDERS. THERE IS NO REASON FOR THIS, BECAUSE ON 1 JUNE WE EXPRESSED OUR RESOLVE TO SIT DOWN AND TALK TO FIND A PEACEFUL SOLUTION TO THE CONFLICT. THE FMLN'S RESPONSE, HOWEVER, HAS BEEN MORE VIOLENCE.</p><p>WE KNOW MANY GROUPS COMPLAIN ABOUT THE VIOLENCE AND INSECURITY; THEY HAVE EVERY REASON TO COMPLAIN. THE ARMED FORCES ARE WILLING TO DO ALL THEY CAN TO PROTECT EVERYONE. THEY HAVE BEEN DOING THIS IN THE PAST DAYS, ESPECIALLY IN THOSE AREAS WHERE THE TERRORIST ATTACKS HAVE BEEN STRONGER. THE ARMED FORCES HAVE BEEN CRITICIZED MANY TIMES AND BY MANY GROUPS, ESPECIALLY THOSE GROUPS THAT IN ONE WAY OR ANOTHER SHARE THE FMLN'S IDEAS. THEY CLAIM THAT THE ARMED FORCES ACT IN A REPRESSIVE MANNER. DEAR SALVADORAN PEOPLE, LET US ANALYZE WHAT REALLY IS HAPPENING IN OUR COUNTRY.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES' DUTY IS TO CONTROL ALL THOSE SITUATIONS IN WHICH THE LAW IS BROKEN. THE ARMED FORCES ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR MAINTAINING PUBLIC ORDER. THE ARMED FORCES ONLY TAKE ACTION WHEN THERE ARE GROUPS THAT ONLY CREATE VIOLENCE AND DISRUPT PUBLIC ORDER. THE ARMED FORCES DO NOT TAKE ACTION JUST BECAUSE THEY WANT TO TAKE ACTION. WE HAVE AN ARMED FORCES TO DEFEND THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND NEVER TO ATTACK THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. THEREFORE, WHAT WE MUST DO IS LOOK AROUND AND SEE WHO IS REFUSING TO MAKE A COMMITMENT AND WHO IS REFUSING TO SIT DOWN, IN A RATIONAL AND PEACEFUL MANNER, TO FIND A SOLUTION TO THIS CONFLICT THAT NO LONGER HAS A PLACE IN OUR HISTORY. THEREFORE, I WOULD LIKE TO REPEAT WHAT WE, AS A GOVERNMENT, SAID ON 1 JUNE. ON THAT DAY WE EXPRESSED OUR WILLINGNESS TO SIT DOWN AND TALK. I WOULD LIKE TO DISCUSS THIS A BIT, BECAUSE THERE HAVE BEEN MISUNDERSTANDINGS OVER OUR INTENTIONS IN THIS DIALOGUE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>