<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1204"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1204"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-31"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1204</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1204 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 31 MAR 90 (EFE) -- [REPORT] [JUAN JORGE FAUNDES] [TEXT] KIDNAPPING IS ONE OF COLOMBIA'S MOST PROFITABLE INDUSTRIES TO THE EXTENT THAT, ACCORDING TO POLICE STATISTICS, FOUR PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KIDNAPPED EVERY DAY SO FAR IN 1990, A FIGURE DOUBLE THAT OF THE SAME PERIOD IN 1989. THE JUDICIAL POLICE AND INVESTIGATIONS DIRECTORATE [DIJIN] THIS WEEK REPORTED THAT 326 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KIDNAPPED FOR EXTORTION PURPOSES SO FAR THIS YEAR.</p><p>DIJIN SAID THAT THE NUMBER OF KIDNAPPINGS IN THIS PERIOD DOUBLED THE NUMBER OF KIDNAPPINGS DURING THE SAME PERIOD IN 1989.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY [DAS], IN 1989, CATTLEMEN PAID 2 BILLION PESOS ($5 MILLION) TO KIDNAPPERS AND BLACKMAILERS WHO THREATENED CAPTURING OR ASSASSINATING THEM IF THEY FAILED TO PAY.</p><p>ACCORDING TO DAS, GUERRILLAS OR CRIMINALS STOLE 10,000 HEAD OF CATTLE IN 1989 AND HAVE STOLEN 1,500 OF THE ANIMALS SO FAR IN 1990.</p><p>SOURCES CONSULTED BY EFE, BOTH POLICE SOURCES AND THOSE WHO STUDY THE COLOMBIAN REALITY, HAVE POINTED OUT THAT GUERRILLAS PARTICIPATE IN 20 TO 30 PERCENT OF THE KIDNAPPING BUSINESS AND COMMON CRIMINALS IN 70 TO 80 PERCENT.</p><p>THESE PERCENTAGES OF PARTICIPATION IN THE INDUSTRY OF KIDNAPPING ARE ONLY ESTIMATES NEARLY IMPOSSIBLE TO CHECK BECAUSE IN MANY CASES GUERRILLAS KIDNAP PEOPLE TO FINANCE THEIR ACTIVITIES AND DO NOT CLAIM RESPONSIBILITY FOR IT.</p><p>IN ADDITION, MANY PEOPLE ARE KIDNAPPED BY COMMON CRIMINALS, BUT THE CRIME IS REPORTED AS BEING PERPETRATED BY GUERRILLAS IN AN ATTEMPT TO COVER UP THE MALEFACTOR'S ACTIONS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE DAS, CORDOBA, IN THE COUNTRY'S NORTHEAST, IS THE DEPARTMENT MOST AFFECTED BY THIS KIND OF CRIME. OTHER HARD HIT DEPARTMENTS ARE ANTIOQUIA IN THE NORTHWEST, SANTANDER IN THE NORTHEAST, AND CAUCA IN THE SOUTHWEST.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE DAS REPORT, THE SITUATION HAS BECOME SO UNTENABLE THAT ITS SEEMS IMPOSSIBLE TO RESTORE SOCIAL BALANCE IN CORDOBA ON A MID-TERM BASIS BECAUSE THE POPULATION HAS ACCUSTOMED ITSELF TO COEXISTING WITH THESE IRREGULARITIES OR REPULSING THEM WITH MECHANISMS OTHER THAN THOSE STIPULATED BY LAW.</p><p>MECHANISMS OTHER THAN THOSE STIPULATED BY LAW REFERRED TO BY THE DAS ARE USUALLY CATTLEMEN ORGANIZING THEMSELVES INTO SELF-DEFENSE PARAMILITARY GROUPS OR DEATH SQUADS.</p><p>THESE PARAMILITARY GROUPS DEFEND THEIR PROPERTIES OR MOUNT RAIDS AGAINST PEASANTS CONSIDERED ACCOMPLICES OR INFORMANTS OF LEFTIST GUERRILLAS OR COMMON CRIMINALS WHO BLACKMAIL THEM.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE DAS, ONE OF THE CAUSES OF THIS SITUATION IS SOCIAL DISRUPTION AND THE PRECARIOUS ECONOMIC SITUATION OF THE COMMUNITIES LOCATED IN MUNICIPALITIES AND LOCALITIES THAT LACK THE MOST BASIC SERVICES, A REALITY THAT IS MOST GLARING IN CORDOBA.</p><p>FIVE GUERRILLA GROUPS ARE ACTIVE IN COLOMBIA. THE MOST BELLIGERENT AND THE ONE THAT HAS USED KIDNAPPING TO THE FULLEST EXTENT IS THE PRO-CASTRO NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY [ELN].</p><p>THE OTHER GROUPS ARE THE COMMUNIST REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA [FARC], THE MAOIST PEOPLE'S LIBERATION ARMY [EPL], THE INDIGENIST QUINTIN LAME, AND THE TROTSKYIST REVOLUTIONARY WORKERS' PARTY [PRT].</p></body></html>