<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0959"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0959"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0959</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0959 (SRI)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 10 DEC 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] MSGR ARTURO RIVERA Y DAMAS, ARCHBISHOP OF SAN SALVADOR, STATED TODAY THAT "THE UNITED STATES SAYS THAT IT WANTS TO HELP IMPROVE THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE IN EL SALVADOR. HOWEVER, IN THE CASE OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE MURDER OF THE SIX JESUIT PRIESTS, IT IS OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE."</p><p>ARCHBISHOP RIVERA Y DAMAS SAID, "I DO NOT KNOW WHAT THE PURPOSE OF ASSUMING THIS ATTITUDE IS. HOWEVER, WHEN EYEWITNESS LUCIA BARRERA DE CERNA FIRST TESTIFIED, SHE CLEARLY DESCRIBED THE MEN AS BEING DRESSED AS SOLDIERS AND NOT AS GUERRILLAS. I BELIEVE THAT IT IS EASY TO DISTINGUISH BETWEEN ONE WAY OF DRESSING AND ANOTHER."</p><p>IT SEEMS THAT THE PLAN IS TO LEAD THE INVESTIGATION THROUGH OTHER PATHS, AND THAT IS WHY THE U.S. OFFICIALS TOOK THE EYEWITNESS TO THE UNITED STATES, "WHERE SHE WAS GIVEN AN AUTHENTIC BRAINWASHING AND THREATENED WITH DEPORTATION IF SHE DID NOT TELL THE TRUTH."</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE JESUITS' LAWYER, SCOTT GRATHEAD, MRS. CERNA WAS SUBJECTED TO AN "AGGRESSIVE AND VIOLENT" QUESTIONING SESSION. AFTER THIS PSYCHOLOGICAL TORMENT, SHE THOUGHT IT OVER AND RETRACTED HER STATEMENT. FORTUNATELY, ONCE RID OF THE PRESSURE FROM HER "PROTECTORS," SHE HAS RETAKEN THE PATH OF TRUTH.</p><p>IN HIS HOMILY TODAY, THE ARCHBISHOP DENOUNCED THE UNITED STATES FOR TREATING THE WITNESS DIFFERENTLY ONCE SHE ARRIVED IN THE UNITED STATES, INSTEAD OF PROTECTING HER LIKE THE U.S. EMBASSY OFFICIALS IN SAN SALVADOR HAD PROMISED, KNOWING THAT THE HUMBLE WORKING WOMAN "FREELY AND SINCERELY HAD DECLARED WHAT SHE HAD SEEN AND HEARD THE NIGHT OF THE HORRIBLE MASSACRE." THE JESUIT PRIESTS WERE MURDERED ON THE MORNING OF 16 NOVEMBER.</p><p>REFERRING TO THE STATEMENT MADE BY THE NATION'S ATTORNEY GENERAL, WHO SAID THAT THE CHURCH HAS REFUSED TO COOPERATE WITH THE INVESTIGATION OF THE MURDER OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS -- A LAWYER-PRIEST HAD BEEN APPOINTED TO COOPERATE WITH THE INVESTIGATION -- THE ARCHBISHOP SAID THAT THIS STATEMENT IS NOT ONLY FALSE BUT ALSO MALICIOUS.</p><p>IN HIS HOMILY TODAY THE PRELATE SAID THAT, IN THE FIRST PLACE, IT THE LAYMEN'S GROUND, AND THAT IS WHERE THEY SHOULD PROVE THEIR EXPERTISE AND MORAL INTEGRITY. THEY SHOULD IMBUE THE EXERCISE OF THEIR PROFESSION WITH EVANGELICAL VALUES.</p><p>THE ARCHBISHOP SAID THAT, IN THE SECOND PLACE, "IT COULD BE A TRAP." HE ADDED THAT THE CHURCH IS NOT GOING TO ENDORSE WITH A CLERGYMAN'S PRESENCE SOMETHING THAT IS ALREADY BEGINNING TO BE "MURKY."</p><p>THE CHURCH AND OTHER SECTORS LINKED TO THE INVESTIGATION IN AN INDEPENDENT WAY HAVE BEEN DISTRUSTFUL EVER SINCE THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE SHOWED ITS ATTITUDE TOWARD LUCIA BARRERA DE CERNA'S TESTIMONY. SHE WAS TESTIFYING AT THE SPANISH EMBASSY BEFORE LAWYERS AND AMBASSADORS, AND AS THE CURFEW HOUR APPROACHED, THEY TOOK THE WITNESS TO ANOTHER EMBASSY. THE NEXT DAY TWO DISTRICT ATTORNEYS CAME TO HARASS THE WITNESS WITH QUESTIONS.</p><p>THE ARCHBISHOP ONCE AGAIN REJECTED THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S ACCUSATION. HE REITERATED THE BELIEF THAT THE ARMED FORCES WERE GUILTY OF THE MURDERS. HE SAID, "I AM NOT MAKING ANY ACCUSATIONS. HOWEVER, THE CHURCH IS VERY ANNOYED, AND ALTHOUGH I AM NOT SAYING THAT WE ARE THE OBJECT OF OFFICIAL PERSECUTION, WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THIS REGIME THERE IS PERSECUTION IN OTHER SECTORS."</p></body></html>