<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0457"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0457"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0457</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0457 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 10 SEP 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] TWO POLICEMEN WERE INJURED AND 13 BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS WERE DESTROYED AS THE RESULT OF TWO TERRORIST ATTACKS LAST NIGHT IN THE GUATEMALAN CAPITAL.</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY FIRE DEPARTMENT SPOKESMEN REPORTED THAT THE BOMBS WENT OFF AT APPROXIMATELY 0400 GMT ON 10 SEPTEMBER IN A RESIDENTIAL AREA IN THE SOUTHERN PART OF THE CITY.</p><p>THE SOURCES ADDED THAT THE FIRST BOMB EXPLODED IN A PUBLIC BUILDING, INJURING 2 POLICEMEN AND DESTROYING 13 BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS. HOWEVER, THE AMOUNT OF DAMAGE HAS NOT YET BEEN DETERMINED.</p><p>THE SOURCES ALSO SAID THAT UNDIDENTIFIED MEN HURLED A GRENADE AT THE "CAMINO REAL" HOTEL, TO THE SOUTH OF THE CAPITAL, BUT WHEN IT EXPLODED IT ONLY MADE A HOLE IN THE GROUND.</p><p>THIS WEEK DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL HECTOR ALEJANDRO GRAMAJO ACCUSED ARMY DISSIDENTS, EXTREME RIGHT-WINGERS, AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISES OF BEING DIRECTLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE GUATEMALAN TERRORIST ACTS.</p><p>IN LESS THAN 1 MONTH, 11 LEADERS OF THE ASSOCIATION OF UNIVERSITY STUDENTS HAVE BEEN KIDNAPPED BY UNIDENTIFIED MEN. THE POLICE HAVE SAID THEY HAVE CLUES CONCERNING THE STUDENTS' WHEREABOUTS, BUT HAVE NOT DISCLOSED THEM.</p></body></html>