<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0975"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0975"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0975</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0975 (SRI)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (RADIO CADENA CUSCATLAN) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY UNIDENTIFIED MODERATOR AND REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [REPORTER] [WORDS INDISTINCT]</p><p>[CRISTIANI] WELL, AS I SAID BEFORE, WE BELIEVE THAT THE DEMOBILIZATION PROCESS BEING DISCUSSED FOR ANY REBEL ORGANIZATION SHOULD BE A COMPLETE PROCESS WITH THEIR PARTICIPATION IN A DEMOCRATIC PROCESS. IT IS A PROCESS THAT IS ADAPTED TO FIT THE CIRCUMSTANCES. AN INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION IS IN CHARGE OF VERIFYING THIS PROCESS. WE BELIEVE THE ORGANIZATION HAS THE NECESSARY AUTHORITY TO DO IT, AND IT SHOULD NOT BE A MATTER OF LOOKING FOR OTHER OPTIONS BECAUSE THEY DO NOT EXIST. WE HAVE NO OTHER OPTIONS BESIDES THE ONES THAT HAVE ALREADY BEEN DESIGNED FOR BOTH THE NICARAGUAN RESISTANCE AND FOR THE FMLN, SPECIFICALLY. IN GENERAL TERMS THESE OPTIONS COULD BE APPLIED TO ANY REBEL GROUP IN THE REGION.</p><p>[MODERATOR] LUIS FUENTES FROM PRENSA GRAFICA. [PAUSE] CARLOS ERNESTO RUGAMA FROM RADIO CADENA YSU.</p><p>[RUGAMA] [WORDS INDISTINCT] ...DIPLOMATIC AND TRADE RELATIONS WITH NICARAGUA. HOW CAN THE REESTABLISHMENT OF THE RELATIONS BE ACHIEVED?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] POINT 12 OF THIS DECLARATION MAKES A FRATERNAL CALL TO EL SALVADOR AND NICARAGUA TO SEEK THE NORMALIZATION OF THE DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR RELATIONS THROUGH DIALOGUE AND NEGOTIATIONS. WE MADE THE DECISION TO TEMPORARILY SUSPEND THE RELATIONS WITH NICARAGUA BECAUSE OF THE FLAGRANT VIOLATION OF THE ESQUIPULAS AGREEMENTS. THEY WERE DIRECTLY SUPPORTING THE FMLN'S TERRORIST AGGRESSION. IN COSTA RICA WE GAVE THEM A DOCUMENT THAT CLEARLY DEFINES EL SALVADOR'S POSITION REGARDING POSSIBLE NEGOTIATIONS WHICH COULD NORMALLY REESTABLISH THE DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR RELATIONS. THIS DOCUMENT WAS NOT DISCUSSED BY THE FIVE PRESIDENTS BECAUSE IT ONLY CONCERNED TWO OF US. HOWEVER, THE DOCUMENT WAS GIVEN TO THE NICARAGUAN DELEGATION AND WE WILL WAIT FOR THE RESULTS. WE BELIEVE THAT IN GENERAL TERMS IT COULD STOP NICARAGUA'S INTERFERENCE AND ITS SUPPORT FOR THE FMLN.</p><p>[MODERATOR] MARIA CORTINA FROM NOTIMEX.</p><p>CORTINA WORDS INDISTINCT ...TO IMMEDIATELY INITIATE THE DIALOGUE PROCESS. IN ADDITION, THEY HAVE TO PUBLICLY STOP CONDUCTING ACTIONS AGAINST THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. THAT WAS PART OF THE PROPOSAL YOU MADE HERE ON SATURDAY. HOWEVER, I AM NOT YET CLEAR ON SOMETHING. TO INITIATE THE DIALOGUE PROCESS, DOES THE FMLN HAVE TO DECLARE A CEASE-FIRE OR WOULD A PUBLIC DECLARATION BE ENOUGH?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] WELL, WE MAINTAIN THE POSITION WE STATED ON 10 DECEMBER. WE BELIEVE THAT POINT 3 OF THIS DECLARATION UPHOLDS WHAT WE HAVE BEEN DOING ALL ALONG REGARDING THE SEARCH FOR A PEACEFUL SOLUTION IN THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT. THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS WANT THE FMLN TO PUBLICLY STATE THAT THEY WILL IMMEDIATELY SUSPEND ALL THE VIOLENT ACTIONS THAT ARE DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY AFFECTING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. WE BELIEVE THAT IT IS NOT ENOUGH TO MAKE A PUBLIC STATEMENT. THEY MUST KEEP THEIR WORD. WE BELIEVE THAT THERE SHOULD AT LEAST BE A 5-DAY PERIOD BETWEEN THE PUBLIC STATEMENT AND THE BEGINNING OF A DIALOGUE. WE MAINTAIN THE POSITION, THAT IS THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS AND MYSELF, THAT NO HOSTILE ACTIONS BY THE FMLN ARE JUSTIFIABLE. WE BELIEVE THAT THE FMLN SHOULD STOP CARRYING OUT ALL HOSTILE ACTIONS IN THE COUNTRY. THIS INDICATES TWO THINGS WHICH MUST BE UNDERSTOOD. FIRST, THE FMLN ARE THE ONLY ONES CONDUCTING HOSTILE ACTIONS. THE GOVERNMENT AND THE DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS THAT BELONG TO IT DO NOT GENERATE HOSTILITIES. THEY SIMPLY RESPOND TO THE ACTIONS OF ARMED GROUPS THAT ARE INTERESTED IN MAKING TROUBLE AND OVERTHROWING A LEGITIMATE GOVERNMENT. THE GOVERNMENT HAS THE CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO A LEGITIMATE DEFENSE AND TO THE PRESERVATION OF NATIONAL SECURITY IN FAVOR OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, AS THE CONSTITUTION STATES. SECONDLY, THE FMLN HAS LOST ALL MANEUVERING OPTIONS. THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS SAID IT CLEARLY WHEN THEY STATED THAT THE FMLN HAD NO JUSTIFICATION FOR THEIR VIOLENT ACTIONS IN EL SALVADOR. THAT IS WHY WE ARE ONCE AGAIN ASKING FOR AN IMMEDIATE AND EFFECTIVE CEASE-FIRE. THESE WERE THE SAME WORDS USED AT THE SUMMIT HELD IN TELA, HONDURAS. HOWEVER, I REPEAT, WE WILL MAINTAIN THE POSITION WE HAD BEFORE, EVEN THOUGH WE TOTALLY AGREE WITH THIS DOCUMENT. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>