<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1175"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1175"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1175</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1175 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 21 MAR 90 (RADIO CHILENA NETWORK) -- [TEXT] TWO INDIVIDUALS SHOT FORMER GOVERNMENT JUNTA MEMBER GUSTAVO LEIGH GUZMAN AT POINT BLANK RANGE THIS MORNING. GENERAL LEIGH WAS ATTACKED AT HIS OFFICE AT BARRIO ALTO. HIS CONDITION IS VERY SERIOUS. HE WAS HIT FIVE TIMES DURING THE ATTACK AT AROUND 1100 [1500 GMT] THIS MORNING. GEN. GUSTAVO LEIGH IS BEING TREATED AT THE MILITARY HOSPITAL.</p><p>INTERIOR MINISTER ENRIQUE KRAUSS, LEGISLATORS, CHURCH OFFICIALS AND OTHER AUTHORITIES VISITED THE HOSPITAL TO CHECK ON LEIGH'S CONDITION.</p><p>PRESIDENT PATRICIO AYLWIN SUSPENDED ALL AUDIENCES AS A CONSEQUENCE OF THE SAVAGE ATTACK. MINISTER SECRETARY OF GOVERNMENT ENRIQUE CORREA SAID THE ATTACK WAS TREMENDOUSLY REGRETTABLE AND CONDEMNABLE.</p><p>INTERIOR UNDER SECRETARY VELISARIO VELAZCO SAID THE GROUP RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ATTACK WILL BE SENTENCED WITH MAXIMUM SEVERITY. CATHOLIC CHURCH AUTHORITIES, LEGISLATORS FROM ALL PARTY BLOCS, BUSINESSMEN, ENTREPRENEURS, WORKERS, AND THE PUBLIC IN GENERAL CONDEMNED THE ATTACK TERMING IT A SHOCK AGAINST THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS.</p><p>DOCTOR FRANCISCO ALAMAN SAID FORMER AIR FORCE COMMANDER LEIGH IS FOR THE TIME BEING OUT OF IMMEDIATE DANGER OF DEATH. THE OTHER GENERAL WOUNDED IN THE ATTACK, RETIRED GENERAL ENRIQUE RUIZ, WAS HIT BY THREE BULLETS AND IS BEING TREATED AT THE AIR FORCE HOSPITAL.</p><p>SO FAR THE MILITARY HOSPITAL HAS NOT RELEASED ANY OFFICIAL REPORT ON LEIGH'S CONDITION. THE MANUEL RODRIGUEZ PATRIOTIC FRONT, AUTONOMOUS FACTION, HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACK.</p></body></html>