<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0294"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0294"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0294</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0294 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 14 JUL 89 (CANAL SEIS TELEVISION) -- [EXCERPTS] THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES HAVE BANNED ENTRANCE INTO THE UNIVERSITY OF EL SALVADOR CAMPUS AND ARE THREATENING TO FIRE ON ANYONE WHO DISOBEYS THIS ORDER. THIS AFTERNOON, THE ARMY ALLOWED NEITHER VEHICLES NOR STUDENTS TO ENTER THE UNIVERSITY CAMPUS. ACCORDING TO MILITARY OFFICIALS, ORDERS WERE GIVEN TO SHOOT ANYONE WHO DISOBEYED BY ATTEMPTING TO ENTER THE UNIVERSITY CAMPUS. THE MEASURE WENT INTO EFFECT AT 1730. THE SITUATION GREW TENSE WHEN PRIVATE CARS ATTEMPTED TO ENTER THE CAMPUS GROUNDS.</p><p>UNIVERSITY OFFICIALS MET WITH THE MILITARY. ACCORDING TO THE ARMED FORCES HIGH COMMAND, SINCE 23 DECEMBER 1988, THE MILITARY HAS NOT ALLOWED WEAPONS TO BE INTRODUCED INTO OR TAKEN OUT OF THE UNIVERSITY CAMPUS. THE DISCUSSION ON WHETHER TO ALLOW THE ENTRANCE OF STUDENTS AND VEHICLES BECAME HEATED. UNIVERSITY GENERAL MANAGER MARIO ALFREDO CABRERA SAID THAT THIS MEASURE IS INTENDED TO SHUT DOWN THE UNIVERSITY.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CABRERA] ALL OF THIS FALLS UNDER THE GENERAL CAMPAIGN OF PSYCHOLOGICAL AGGRESSION AGAINST THE UNIVERSITY TO MINIMIZE ITS AUTHORITY IN LIGHT OF ITS ROLE AS THE GOVERNMENT'S AND THE NATION'S CONSCIENCE, WHICH OFFICIALS -- WHO ARE NOT LEADING THE COUNTRY ALONG THE CORRECT PATH -- DO NOT LIKE. WE BELIEVE THAT THIS IS THE BASIC REASON BEHIND THIS AND OTHER MEASURES. THESE MEASURES INCLUDE HELICOPTERS OVERFLYING THE CAMPUS AT VERY LOW ALTITUDES AND SOLDIERS THREATENING TO SHOOT TO KILL IF THE ORDER IS DISOBEYED. [END RECORDING]</p><p>SINCE THE MILITARY BLOCKADE WENT INTO EFFECT, SALVADORAN AIR FORCE HELICOPTERS HAVE BEEN OVERFLYING THE CAMPUS.</p></body></html>