<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1267"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1267"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1267</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1267 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [INTERVIEW WITH MNR'S UNGO BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [REPORTER] I HAVE ANOTHER QUESTION. A FEW MOMENTS AGO, PRESIDENT CRISTIANI TERMED THE MOST RIDICULOUS COMMUNIQUE HE HAD EVER HEARD FROM THE FMLN THE ONE IN WHICH THEY JUSTIFIED YESTERDAY'S MILITARY ACTIONS. HE TERMED THEM PROPAGANDA-ORIENTED. WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE NEGOTIATIONS, HOW DO YOU VIEW THIS?</p><p>[UNGO] IN MY OPINION, THE FMLN COMMUNIQUE HAS ASPECTS THAT ARE INTERESTING AND OTHERS WHICH I THINK ARE NOT VALID. THE TIME AND OPPORTUNITY OF THAT ACTION IS AMBIVALENT. I THINK IT HAS NEGATIVE EFFECTS, AS WELL AS POSITIVE EFFECTS FOR THEM. THERE IS ALWAYS THE FAMOUS VICIOUS CIRCLE WHEREIN IF THE FMLN CEASES TO ACT MILITARILY, IT IS BAD FOR THE FMLN BECAUSE IT SHOWS A SIGN OF WEAKNESS. IF IT ACTS MILITARILY IT IS ALSO BAD, BECAUSE IT SHOWS THAT IT DOES NOT WANT PEACE. IN THIS SENSE, I THINK THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT IT HAS EXHIBITED A SHOW OF FORCE, THAT ITS ACTIONS HAVE BEEN STRICTLY PROPAGANDA-ORIENTED OR WITH PROPAGANDA OBJECTIVES. IT DOES NOT CEASE TO CREATE DIFFICULT CONDITIONS THAT GENERATE A NEGATIVE REACTION ON THE OTHER'S PART, IF THEY WANT TO SIT DOWN AND TRY TO EASE CONFRONTATIONS AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE AND SEEK AN AGREEMENT AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE. I BELIEVE, AS I TOLD PRESIDENT CRISTIANI ON THE TELEPHONE YESTERDAY WHEN WE SPOKE OF OTHER THINGS BUT TOUCHED ON THIS TOPIC, THAT I UPHOLD THE GOVERNMENT'S THESIS. WE HAVE ALWAYS CRITICIZED THE FACT THAT WHEN NEGATIVE THINGS OCCUR, THEY ARE INVOKED TO SUSPEND A PROCESS WHICH IN OUR OPINION SHOULD BE CONTINUOUS. WE HAVE ALWAYS UPHELD THE CONTINUITY OF THE DIALOGUE. THE GOVERNMENT CRITICIZED THE FMLN WHEN ON TWO OCCASIONS IT SUSPENDED THE DIALOGUE DUE TO TERRORIST ACTIONS ON THE PART OF THE GOVERNMENT OR SECURITY CORPS. THE DIALOGUE AND NEGOTIATION PROCESS HAS SUFFERED AS A RESULT OF THIS. I BELIEVE THAT IN THIS CASE THE GOVERNMENT SHOULD TAKE ITS OWN MEDICINE. IT SHOULD MAINTAIN THE CONTINUITY OF THE PROCESS AND NOT USE AS A PRETEXT THE FMLN MILITARY ACTIONS TO TRY TO SEEK WAYS OF CONDITIONING OR PERTURBING A PROCESS OF DIALOGUE AND NEGOTIATION, WHICH INVOLVES NOT ONLY THE GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN, BUT THE POLITICAL PARTIES AND SOCIAL FORCES AS WELL.</p><p>[REPORTER] DR. UNGO, IN THAT SENSE THE GOVERNMENT HAD ANNOUNCED THROUGH PRESIDENT CRISTIANI THAT THE DIALOGUE WOULD BE RESUMED ON 3 MAY. SUBSEQUENTLY, THE UN SECRETARY GENERAL'S ENVOY ANNOUNCED THAT IT WOULD BE THE FIRST PART OF MAY. DON'T YOU THINK THAT TOO MUCH TIME IS BEING SPENT WITHOUT BEING ABLE TO AGREE ON SUMMIT MEETINGS THAT WILL PERMIT SECURING AGREEMENTS?</p><p>[UNGO] I HAVE A VERY POSITIVE ANALYSIS OF HOW THE PROCESS IS DEVELOPING IN THIS FIRST PHASE, JUDGING BY THE CONDUCT ON THE PART OF THE GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN. I THINK THERE HAS BEEN A DELAY, BUT I THINK IT IS A DELAY THAT IMPROVES THE POSSIBILITIES AND CONDITIONS. APPARENTLY THE TIMES WERE MARKED BY HASTE AND PRECIPITATION FOR THE FMLN TO PRESENT A PROPOSAL. ALSO, THERE WAS A VERY SHORT TIME FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO PREPARE ITS RESPONSE AND HOLD A BILATERAL MEETING LATER. AT THE SAME TIME, IT LEFT A VERY NARROW MARGIN OF INFLUENCE TO THE POLITICAL PARTIES AND SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS.</p><p>PRESIDENT CRISTIANI HIMSELF CONVENED THE POLITICAL PARTIES TO EXPLAIN TO THEM WHAT THE SITUATION WAS AND HOW HE VIEWED THE ROLE OF THE PARTIES. THE PARTIES HAVE THEIR OWN CONCEPT OF THEIR ROLE AND HAVE BEEN WORKING ARDUOUSLY AND RESPONSIBLY. IN TWO WEEKS THEY HELD FOUR PROLONGED, HIGH-LEVEL MEETINGS, TWO PER WEEK. WE WANT TO DO THE SAME THING WITH THE FMLN. I BELIEVE THAT THE PERIOD OF TWO TO THREE WEEKS TO ONE MONTH, SINCE THE GENEVA AGREEMENT WAS SIGNED, HAS BEEN POSITIVE. IF WE HAD HURRIED THINGS UP, PERHAPS THE POSSIBILITY OF ACHIEVING RESULTS WOULD HAVE BEEN AFFECTED. WHAT HAPPENS IS THAT ALL OF THIS GIVES WAY TO SOMEWHAT PESSIMISTIC EVALUATIONS, BECAUSE THE CONFIDENTIALITY WAS VIOLATED BY PRESIDENT CRISTIANI. I HAVE BEEN TOLD THAT THESE THINGS ARE PART OF A PRIVATE, CONFIDENTIAL AIDE-MEMOIRE THAT WAS AGREED TO IN GENEVA BETWEEN THE TWO TOP LEADERS OF THE FMLN AND THE GOVERNMENT DELEGATION WITH UN SECRETARY GENERAL PEREZ DE CUELLAR'S REPRESENTATIVE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>