<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0711"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0711"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0711</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0711 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 13 NOV 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] ACCORDING TO CIVILIAN EYEWITNESSES, SALVADORAN ARMY TROOPS BOMBED THE UNIVERSITY'S SCHOOL OF MEDICINE.</p><p>THE SAME SOURCES REPORTED THAT SOLDIERS OF THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE CAPTURED AND BLINDFOLDED 10 UNIVERSITY GUARDS YESTERDAY AND THEN TOOK THEM OFF THE CAMPUS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THESE EYEWITNESSES, ARMY TROOPS ENTERED THE UNIVERSITY OF EL SALVADOR USING AN ARMORED VEHICLE AND A 105-MM CANNON. THEY SAID THAT THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE WAS BOMBED LATER ON. HOWEVER, OFFICIAL SOURCES HAVE NEITHER CONFIRMED NOR DENIED THIS REPORT.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND ARMED FORCES HAVE ACCUSED THE UNIVERSITY OF EL SALVADOR OF BEING A GUERRILLA "SANCTUARY" AND HAVE SAID THAT THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE WAS ATTACKED FROM THE CAMPUS.</p><p>IN ADDITION, THESE EYEWITNESSES SAID THAT 10 UNIVERSITY "GUARDS" WERE CAPTURED ON CAMPUS, WHICH IS LOCATED NEAR THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE, ONE OF THE GARRISONS ATTACKED BY THE GUERRILLAS WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REBEL OFFENSIVE BEGUN ON THE NIGHT OF 11 NOVEMBER.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THESE SOURCES, THE SOLDIERS SEIZED PROPAGANDA MATERIAL.</p><p>THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) BEGAN AN OFFENSIVE ON 11 NOVEMBER, WHICH HAS INCLUDED AN ATTACK ON THE HOMES OF IMPORTANT GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THAT OF SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI.</p><p>ON THE SAME NIGHT, THE REBELS ALSO ATTACKED THE NATIONAL POLICE HEADQUARTERS IN ZACAMIL, ONE OF THE MOST POPULATED NEIGHBORHOODS IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR, AS WELL AS MILITARY POSITIONS IN A DOZEN RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS LOCATED IN VARIOUS SECTORS OF THIS CAPITAL. THE FIGHTING THEN SPREAD TO SANTA ANA, CABANAS, LA PAZ, SAN VICENTE, SAN MIGUEL, AND USULUTAN DEPARTMENTS IN THE COUNTRY'S NORTH, CENTRAL, AND EASTERN PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE REBEL OFFENSIVE HAS ALREADY RESULTED IN HUNDREDS OF CASUALTIES -- APPROXIMATELY 300 ACCORDING TO THE ARMY, AND 400 ACCORDING TO THE GUERRILLAS. THIS COMPELLED THE GOVERNMENT TO IMPOSE A STATE OF SIEGE AND A CURFEW THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.</p></body></html>