<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0081"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0081"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-02-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0081</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0081 (NOSC)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 8 FEB 89 -- [TEXT] THE BODY OF LIEUTENANT JOSE LUIS CANALES WAS REMOVED SHORTLY AFTER 1400 THIS AFTERNOON. HE WAS MURDERED BY FOUR UNIDENTIFIED PEOPLE ON A SOCCER FIELD AT CARAMPANGUE AND ALBORADA STREETS, IN THE SANTIAGO NEIGHBORHOOD OF QUILCURA. THE MURDERERS ARE STILL AT LARGE.</p><p>THE PROSECUTOR OF THE 5TH MILITARY COURT, RODRIGO SANDOVAL, WAS AT THE SCENE. HE WILL INVESTIGATE THIS ATTACK, IN WHICH A 2D CORPORAL OF THE CARABINEROS WAS ALSO KILLED.</p><p>CARABINEROS HAVE REPORTED THAT THE VEHICLE USED BY THE MURDERERS TO ESCAPE WAS FOUND AT 82 OR 81 BARROS LUCO STREET, IN LA CISTERNA NEIGHBORHOOD.</p><p>EYEWITNESSES REPORTED THAT THREE MEN AND A DARK-HAIRED GIRL, WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE ATTACK GOT OUT OF THE CAR, A WHITE HONDA ACCORD. THE UNIFORMED POLICE REPORTED THAT AFTER FINDING THE CAR, THEY RAIDED A HOUSE THAT TURNED OUT TO BE A HIDEOUT OF THE MANUEL RODRIGUEZ PATRIOTIC FRONT. THE HOUSE IS AT 9224 BENAVENTE STREET, IN THE LA BANDERA NEIGHBORHOOD.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE POLICE, MANY SUBVERSIVE DOCUMENTS WERE FOUND IN THE HOUSE.</p></body></html>