<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0074"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0074"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0074</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0074 (NOSC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 13 MAR 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION, MUCH ATTENTION: THE FOLLOWING IS A CALL TO THOSE WHO ARE HELPING TO ORGANIZE THE ELECTIONS. MUCH ATTENTION:</p><p>WE CALL ON ALL THOSE PEOPLE WHO ARE HELPING TO ORGANIZE THE ELECTIONS. WE DEMAND THAT THEY PUBLICLY RESIGN FROM THEIR POSTS. WE REPEAT: WE CALL ON ALL THOSE PEOPLE WHO ARE HELPING TO ORGANIZE THE 19 MARCH ELECTIONS AND DEMAND THAT THEY PUBLICLY RESIGN. THE 19 MARCH ELECTION BEING ORGANIZED BY THE PDC AND ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] IS PART OF THE MILITARY COUNTERINSURGENCY PLAN AIMED AT LEGITIMIZING REPRESSION, THE BOMBING OF CIVILIANS, AND THE HUNGER AND POVERTY OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. IN LIGHT OF THE ABOVE, THESE PEOPLE MUST IMMEDIATELY RESIGN. AFTER THEY HAVE DONE THIS, THEY WILL NO LONGER BE CONSIDERED BY OUR PEOPLE AS BEING PART OF THE MILITARY COUNTERINSURGENCY PLAN AND THEY WILL BE ABLE TO LIVE IN THEIR HOMES WITHOUT ANY PROBLEMS.</p><p>ARENA AND THE PDC REFUSED TO ACCEPT OUR PEACE PROPOSAL TO MAKE THE ELECTIONS A TOOL FOR A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE WAR. THEREFORE, THE FEELING OF THE MAJORITY OF OUR PEOPLE IS ONE OF REJECTION OF THE 19 MARCH ELECTIONS. THIS FEELING REQUIRES THAT EVERYONE INVOLVED IN ORGANIZING THE 19 MARCH ELECTIONS PUBLICLY RESIGN AND JOIN THE PEOPLE IN THEIR SEARCH FOR PEACE THROUGH DIALOGUE AND NEGOTIATION AND IN DEFEATING THE ELECTORAL FARCE AIMED AT PERPETUATING THE WAR.</p></body></html>