<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0796"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0796"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0796</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0796 (PRC)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 18 NOV 89 (RADIO SANDINO) -- [TEXT] [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH NORMAN LACAYO, NICARAGUAN CHARGE D'AFFAIRES IN EL SALVADOR BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [LACAYO, IN PROGRESS] ...GOVERNMENT AGAINST OUR EMBASSY WORSENED. THIS CAMPAIGN WAS INITIATED AT THE HIGHEST LEVELS OF THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT. ON VARIOUS OCCASIONS OVER THE PAST 8 DAYS, TELEVISION, PRESS, AND RADIO HAVE SYSTEMATICALLY BROADCAST STATEMENTS BY EL SALVADOR'S TOP MILITARY AND POLITICAL AUTHORITIES, PRESIDENT CRISTIANI, VICE PRESIDENT MERINO, AND THE HEAD OF ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE], ETC, BLAMING NICARAGUA FOR WHAT IS HAPPENING IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>THIS CAMPAIGN HAS BEEN SYSTEMATIC AND IT HAS ENCOURAGED TERRORIST GROUPS TO THREATEN THE LIVES AND SAFETY OF NICARAGUA'S DIPLOMATIC REPRESENTATIVES. OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS, I HAVE RECEIVED MANY DEATH THREATS FROM EXTREMIST SECTORS AND, I REPEAT, THIS LED THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT TO THE DECISION TO EVACUATE US.</p><p>THIS DOES NOT MEAN THAT DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES ARE BROKEN. IT IS A PRECAUTIONARY MEASURE TO ENSURE THE ENTIRE MISSION'S PHYSICAL SAFETY. WE REQUESTED DIPLOMATIC PROTECTION FROM THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT AND RECEIVED A POSITIVE RESPONSE. WE WENT TODAY FROM THE RESIDENCE OF THE MEXICAN AMBASSADOR IN EL SALVADOR TO THE AIRPORT, AND FROM THERE TO MANAGUA.</p><p>IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS, I WILL BE GLAD TO ANSWER THEM.</p><p>[REPORTER] A QUESTION FROM RADIO SANDINO. FIRST OF ALL, SINCE YOU GOT A FIRST- HAND VIEW, WHAT IS THE CURRENT SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR; SECOND, IS THIS A PROVISIONAL MEASURE OR WILL IT BE EXTENDED; HOW LONG WILL THIS MEASURE LAST?</p><p>[LACAYO] I CANNOT SAY HOW LONG IT WILL LAST. THAT IS UP TO THE GOVERNMENT, AND IT WILL DEPEND ON THE INTERNAL SITUATION IN THE COUNTRY. REGARDING YOUR FIRST QUESTION, THE SITUATION IS DIFFICULT. ON A MILITARY LEVEL, THE WAR CONTINUES; THERE IS A GOOD DEAL OF MISINFORMATION BY THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND MANY INTERNATIONAL NEWS AGENCIES. THE TRUTH IS THAT THE BATTLE CONTINUES, THERE HAS BEEN CONSIDERABLE PHYSICAL DESTRUCTION IN MANY TOWNS AND NEIGHBORHOODS ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF SAN SALVADOR. YOU KNOW WHICH TOWNS ARE INCLUDED: ZACAMIL, CIUDAD DELGADO, SOYAPANGO, ETC. THIS IS THE RESULT OF THE INDISCRIMINATE BOMBINGS BY THE SALVADORAN AIR FORCE.</p><p>[REPORTER] THERE IS A REPORT THAT SOMOZIST GUARDS ARE FIGHTING WITH THE SALVADORAN ARMY. IS THERE ANYTHING TO THIS?</p><p>[LACAYO] THERE ARE RUMORS TO THAT EFFECT. SOME INSURGENT RADIO STATIONS HAVE REPORTED IT, AND THEY HAVE ALSO MENTIONED TROOPS FROM OTHER CENTRAL AMERICAN GOVERNMENTS.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[LACAYO] YES, BUT NOT WITH THE PERSISTENCE THAT PREVAILS NOW.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[LACAYO] OF COURSE. MANY TELEPHONE CALLS, SURVEILLACE BY SUSPICIOUS INDIVIDUALS AND VEHICLES AT THE RESIDENCE THROUGHOUT THE DAY, AND ESPECIALLY DIRECT THREATS BY TELEPHONE.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[LACAYO] I WOULD IMAGINE THEY ARE SALVADORAN RIGHTWING EXTREMISTS, BETTER KNOWN AS DEATH SQUADS. THEY BEGAN TO SELECTIVELY SHOOT PEOPLE. THERE IS THE CASE OF MRS NORMA GIROLA DE HERRERA, PRESIDENT OF THE WOMENS INSTITUTE, A VERY PROGRESSIVE INSTITUTION. MRS HERERA WAS VERY WELL KNOWN, AND SHE WAS MURDERED UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES VERY SIMILAR TO THOSE OF THE ASSASINATION OF THE JESUITS; ON THE SAME DAY.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[LACAYO[ I DO NOT HAVE ANY MORE INFORMATION BECAUSE OF THE CITY'S MILITARIZATION. A STATE OF SIEGE HAS BEEN IMPLEMENTED, THE CIRCULATION OF VEHICLES IS MINIMAL, COMMUNICATION IS SPARSE, TELEPHONES ARE TAPPED.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[LACAYO] YES, THAT HAS BEEN PROVEN.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[LACAYO] THEY ARE WAGING A WAR WHICH CONSISTS AT TIMES OF MAINTAINING POSITIONS, AT OTHER TIMES OF MOBILIZING. ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS CONTROLLED AREAS CEASED TO BE CONTROLLED BUT THE WAR CONTINUES.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[LACAYO] NO, I DO NOT KNOW. THE GOVERNMENT DID THAT DIRECTLY THROUGH THE FOREIGN MINISTRY.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[LACAYO] NO, BECAUSE WE DID NOT KNOW. HOWEVER, THE TRUTH IS THAT WE NEVER HAD PROTECTION. WE NEVER HAD POLICE PROTECTION AT THE RESIDENCE ALTHOUGH IT WAS REQUESTED THROUGH THE FOREIGN MINISTRY. THE EMBASSY HAD TWO POLICEMEN, BUT DURING THIS PERIOD THEY LEFT AND THE EMBASSY IS WITHOUT POLICE PROTECTION.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[LACAYO] THAT HAS BEEN SAID ABOUT GUATEMALA AND HONDURAS.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[LACAYO] AS A REPORT AND IN THE PRESS.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT] [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>