<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1001"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1001"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1001</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1001 (TRW)</p><p>BOGOTA, 15 DEC 89 -- [REPORT] [TEXT] GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA, ALIAS THE MEXICAN, ONE OF THE MOST DANGEROUS COLOMBIAN DRUG TRAFFICKERS WAS KILLED TODAY ALONG WITH HIS SON FREDDY AND A GROUP OF BODYGUARDS AT A FARM PRESUMABLY OWNED BY DRUG TRAFFICKER PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA, LOCATED BETWEEN TOLU VAND COBENAS, IN SUCRE DEPARTMENT.</p><p>THE GOVERNOR OF SUCRE TOLD THE GOVERNMENT MINISTER THAT IT IS POSSIBLE THAT PABLO ESCOBAR IS IN THE SAME AREA WHICH HAS BEEN SURROUNDED AND ALL FLIGHTS HAVE BEEN RESTRICTED.</p><p>REGARDING THIS HISTORICAL NEWS, WHICH COULD BE THE MOST IMPORTANT OF THE DECADE ON THE SUBJECT OF PUBLIC ORDER AND THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUGGLE AGAINST THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS, HERE IS A REPORT ON A NEWS CONFERENCE ATTENDED BY VIOLA CONGOTE:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [GOMEZ PADILLA, IN PROGRESS] ...GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA, ALIAS THE MEXICAN, BETWEEN COBENAS AND TOLU, SPECIFICALLY AT THE TOLUGAS FARM. THERE WAS A CLASH IN WHICH THE POLICE KILLED THIS MAN, HIS SON, AND FIVE INDIVIDUALS WHO WERE ACCOMPANYING HIM.</p><p>[REPORTER] ARE YOU ABSOLUTELY SURE THAT IT WAS GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA?</p><p>[GOMEZ PADILLA] HE HAS BEEN FULLY IDENTIFIED AS GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA, ALIAS THE MEXICAN.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[GOMEZ PADILLA] FOR A LONG TIME, THE NATIONAL POLICE IN COLLABORATION WITH THE DAS AND OTHER STATE INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES HAVE BEEN GATHERING INTELLIGENCE DATA WHICH TODAY HAS YIELDED POSITIVE RESULTS.</p><p>[REPORTER] HOW MANY POLICEMEN PARTICIPATED IN THE OPERATION?</p><p>[GOMEZ PADILLA] SEVERAL SPECIALIZED UNITS OF THE NATIONAL POLICE PARTICIPATED IN THE OPERATION ALONG WITH THE POLICE IN CORDOBA AND SUCRE DEPARTMENTS.</p><p>[REPORTER] ARE THERE ANY POLICEMEN WOUNDED?</p><p>[GOMEZ PADILLA] WE DO NOT KNOW OF ANY POLICEMEN BEING WOUNDED.</p><p>[REPORTER] HOW LONG DID THE CLASH BETWEEN THE ARMY AND THE BODYGUARDS OR BETWEEN THE POLICE AND THE DEAD KILLED LAST?</p><p>[GOMEZ PADILLA] RIGHT NOW WE DO NOT KNOW EXACTLY HOW LONG THE CLASH WAS.</p><p>[REPORTER] ARE THE CORPSES STILL AT THE SITE OF THE INCIDENT OR WILL THEY BE IMMEDIATELY TRANSFERRED TO BOGOTA?</p><p>[GOMEZ PADILLA] WE HAVE SENT CRIMINAL ARRAIGNMENT JUDGES THERE, AS WELL AS NATIONAL POLICE INSPECTORS. THE JUDGES WILL DECIDE WHAT TO DO.</p><p>[REPORTER] HOW WAS IT CONFIRMED THAT IT WAS ACTUALLY GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA?</p><p>[GOMEZ PADILLA] BASED ON MEANS WE HAVE OF CONFIRMING HIS IDENTITY. [END RECORDING] [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>