<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0723"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0723"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0723</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0723 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 13 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [NATIONAL INFORMATION CENTER] [TEXT] 1. GIVEN THE STATE OF SIEGE THAT HAS PREVAILED IN THE COUNTRY SINCE 11 NOVEMBER, AND ACCORDING TO THE NATIONAL CONSTITUTION, THE CIVILIAN POPULATION IS REQUIRED TO COOPERATE WITH THE ARMED FORCES AND THE VARIOUS SECURITY CORPS WHEN NECESSARY -- MAKING SURE THIS COOPERATION INVOLVES ARMY MEMBERS OR DULY AUTHORIZED JUDICIAL OFFICIALS.</p><p>2. UPON LEARNING THAT ARMED TERRORISTS ARE OPERATING NEAR YOUR AREAS OF RESIDENCE, YOU MUST IMMEDIATELY CALL TELEPHONE NUMBER 123 OR NOTIFY THE NEAREST MILITARY POST.</p><p>3. THE POPULATION MUST REMAIN CALM AND GO TO WORK, WHILE AT THE SAME TIME MAKING SURE THAT YOU ARE IN YOUR RESPECTIVE RESIDENCES WHEN THE CURFEW GOES INTO EFFECT AT 1800.</p><p>4. THE SALVADORAN POPULATION MUST REMAIN IN THEIR RESIDENCES AND STAY OFF THE STREETS, EVEN UPON HEARING THAT AN ANTISUBVERSIVE OPERATION IS TAKING PLACE NEARBY -- THIS IS PARTICULARLY NECESSARY FOR MINORS.</p><p>5. THE SALVADORAN POPULATION ENGAGED IN COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES, PARTICULARLY THE SALE OF STAPLES, MUST REMEMBER THAT THERE IS A DECREE THAT FORBIDS MARKING UP PRICES, SINCE THIS WOULD BE AN ANTIPATRIOTIC ACTION DURING THESE CRUCIAL TIMES FOR THE COUNTRY.</p><p>6. THE SALVADORAN POPULATION MUST REMAIN ALERT TO THE INFORMATION BEING ISSUED BY THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES, BECAUSE IT WILL BE PROVIDED ON A REGULAR BASIS AND ACCORDING TO THE TRUTH. THE CIVILIAN POPULATION CAN ALSO REST ASSURED THAT THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES ARE EFFICIENTLY AND PROFESSIONALLY CONTROLLING THE GROUPS OF FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] TERRORIST CRIMINALS. THEREFORE, THE POPULATION MUST REMAIN CALM AND REJECT THE DISINFORMATION BEING ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL SUBVERSION.</p></body></html>