<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0385"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0385"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAVANA (CUBA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0385</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0385 (BBN)</p><p>HAVANA (CUBA), 22 AUG 89 (INTERNATIONAL SERVICE) -- [COMMENTARY] [MANOLO ORTEGA] [TEXT] THE FULL SCOPE OF THE WAVE OF VIOLENCE AND DEATH THAT HAS SWAMPED COLOMBIA OVER THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS IS NOW BEGINNING TO BE ASSESSED. LATIN AMERICA AND OTHER PARTS OF THE WORLD HAVE REMAINED ON THE SIDELINES OF THAT SOUTH AMERICAN COUNTRY'S DOMESTIC STRIFE, WHERE HUMAN LIFE IS ALMOST WORTHLESS. VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ HIT THE NAIL ON THE HEAD WHEN HE TOLD COLOMBIAN RADIO CARACOL THAT WE MAY NOT BE DOING WHAT WE MUST CONCERNING CURRENT DEVELOPMENTS IN COLOMBIA. CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ IS CONCERNED THAT SOME NATIONS MAY BE GETTING USED TO LIVNG IN A CLIMATE OF COLLECTIVE INTIMIDATION.</p><p>DAILY EVENTS OCCUR IN COLOMBIA AMID A CLIMATE OF NATIONAL UNCERTAINTY. BANDS OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS HAVE BUILT AN EMPIRE OF DIRTY MONEY AND BLOODTHIRSTY MAFIAS IN DEATHLY COMPLICITY WITH THE MILITARY DEPLOYMENT OF 140 PARAMILITARY GROUPS. YEARS AGO, WHEN THESE GROUPS ANNOUNCED THEIR GUNS WERE AIMED AT PROGRESSIVE AND LEFTIST PERSONALITIES, THEY OPERATED WITH THE UNSPOKEN COMPLICITY OF MANY SECTORS, INCLUDING THE GOVERNMENT. HOWEVER, FOR SOME TIME NOW, THE MURDER VICTIMS HAVE BEEN LEFTISTS, LIBERALS, CONSERVATIVES, AND EVEN POLITICALLY INDEPENDENT PERSONS WHO OPPOSE THE CHAOS CREATED BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS, LANDOWNERS, SOME OFFICERS, AND PARAMILITARY GROUPS. LUIS CARLOS GALAN, 46, PRESIDENTIAL HOPEFUL, LIBERAL SENATOR, LAWYER, AND NEWSMEN IS THE LATEST VICTIM OF THIS DEATHLY SPIRIAL. HIS REMAINS [29-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] LUIS CARLOS GALAN. DRUG TRAFFICKERS HAVE SHOWN THEIR HIT LIST IS NEVERENDING. THEY ALSO BRING TO THE FORE THE POWER AND SCOPE OF THE DIRTY WAR THESE PEOPLE BEGAN IN THE COUNTRY AMID THE GOVERNMENT'S INACTION.</p><p>MANY WONDER HOW THE PARAMILITARY TOP COMMAND CAN GO UNPUNISHED, CONSIDERING THAT ITS CHIEF LEADERS HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED, BECAUSE MORE OFTEN THAN NOT THE KILLERS DO VERY LITTLE TO COVER THEIR TRACKS. LOOKING AHEAD, THE COLOMBIAN ELECTORAL PROCESS THAT WILL CONCLUDE IN NEXT YEAR'S ELECTIONS HAS BEEN DEALT A HEAVY BLOW WITH GALAN'S MURDER. THE REMAINING PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES WILL HAVE TO CONDUCT THEIR POLITICAL CAMPAIGN SURROUNDED BY ARMIES OF BODYGUARDS, AN ARRANGEMENT WIDELY USED IN COLOMBIA BY POLITICIANS, LABOR LEADERS, JUDGES, ARTISTS, AND MINOR OFFICIALS. PERPLEXITY OVER WHAT HAPPENED IN COLOMBIA IS ONE OF THE INITIAL REACTIONS IN LATIN AMERICA. LUIS CARLOS GALAN'S MURDER ALSO CALLS FOR CONDEMNATION. PERHAPS IN THE FUTURE IT MAY HELP MAKE THE CONTINENT MEDITATE ON WHETHER OR NOT IT IS ADVISABLE TO BE INDIFFERENT TO THE COLLECTIVE INTIMIDATION THAT PREVAILS IN COLOMBIA.</p></body></html>