<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1188"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1188"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1188</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1188 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>LIMA, 16 MAR 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] IT WAS REPORTED TODAY THAT MEMBERS OF THE PEASANT DEFENSE PATROL KILLED, WITH CLUBS AND MACHETES, THREE PEASANTS ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED WITH TERRORISTS AND KIDNAPPED 17 OTHERS IN A TOWN OF THE ANDEAN PROVINCE OF AYACUCHO, 576 KM SOUTHEAST OF LIMA.</p><p>WITNESSES TOLD THE POLICE THAT AT LEAST 300 MILITIAMEN FROM THE VICHOS AND CONDORAY DISTRICTS, 17 KM FROM AYACUCHO, ATTACKED THE SANTA BARBARA VILLAGE EARLY ON 15 MARCH AND OVERPOWERED THE RESIDENTS WITH MACHETES AND CLUBS.</p><p>WITNESSES SAID THAT THE MILITIA MEMBERS KILLED BROTHERS EFRAIN, ISAAC, AND MAXIMO PRADO, ON CHARGES OF BEING LINKED WITH SHINING PATH TERRORISTS, AND KIDNAPPED 17 ALLEGED SHINING PATH TERRORISTS WHO WERE TAKEN TO AN UNKNOWN PLACE.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE POLICE AT LEAST 40 "MEMBERS OF THE PEASANT DEFENSE PATROL" FROM VICHOS AND CONDORAY DIED IN A CLASH WITH TERRORISTS IN JANUARY. THE TERRORISTS THEN HEADED FOR THE NEIGHBORING TOWN OF SANTA BARBARA, WHERE PEASANTS ALLEGEDLY HELPED THEM.</p><p>THE SOURCE SAID THAT "IF THE CHARGE MADE BY THE PEASANTS IS PROVEN TO BE TRUE, THE REASON FOR THE ATTACK COULD BE IN RETALIATION FOR THE GREAT NUMBER OF PEASANT DEFENSE PATROL MEMBERS KILLED TWO MONTHS AGO."</p><p>THE SO-CALLED "PEASANT DEFENSE PATROLS" WERE CREATED BY THE ARMY FOUR YEARS AGO TO STRUGGLE AGAINST SHINING PATH TERRORISTS IN DISTANT PLACES WHICH LACK SECURITY FORCES.</p><p>THE NATIONAL POLICE HAVE REPORTED THAT A LARGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE APPARENTLY DIED IN A CLASH BETWEEN A POLICE PATROL AND A COLUMN OF TERRORISTS IN THE INTERIOR OF THE ANDEAN PROVINCE OF TARMA, 350 KM EAST OF LIMA.</p><p>THE SOURCE SAID THE FIREFIGHT EARLY YESTERDAY LASTED SEVERAL HOURS AND THAT IT WAS NOT POSSIBLE TO KNOW HOW MANY PEOPLE DIED IN THE CLASH DUE TO THE POOR COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS.</p><p>SENATOR ENRIQUE BERNALEZ, WHO SPECIALIZES IN POLITICAL VIOLENCE, TODAY REPORTED THAT TERRORISM HAS CLAIMED THE LIVES OF AT LEAST 607 PERUVIAN SO FAR THIS YEAR, INCLUDING CIVILIANS AND MILITARY.</p></body></html>