<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0594"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0594"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LONDON (UK)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0594</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0594 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>LONDON (UK), 19 OCT 89 (BEIJING XINHUA) -- [TEXT] BRITAIN AND ARGENTINA TODAY AGREED TO RESUME THEIR CONSULAR RELATIONS AND DIRECT AIR AND SEA LINKS SEVERED DURING THEIR WAR OVER SOVEREIGNTY OF THE MALVINAS (FALKLANDS) ISLANDS SEVEN YEARS AGO.</p><p>AFTER THREE DAYS OF SUBSTANTIVE TALKS IN MADRID, THE TWO COUNTRIES AGREED "TO LIFT ALL REMAINING RESTRICTIONS" ON TRADE AND FINANCIAL EXCHANGES, SAID A JOINT COMMUNIQUE ISSUED HERE TODAY.</p><p>THEY ALSO EXPRESSED A WISH TO NORMALIZE THEIR TIES "WITH A VIEW TO RESUMING DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS," IT SAID.</p><p>THE DISCUSSIONS WERE HELD BETWEEN BRITISH NEGOTIATOR CRISPIN TICKELL, BRITAIN'S AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONS, AND VETERAN ARGENTINE DIPLOMAT LUCIO GARCIA DE SOLAR.</p><p>THE TALKS, ARRANGED AFTER THE TWO SPECIAL ENVOYS MET IN NEW YORK IN AUGUST, WERE EXTENDED A DAY BEYOND ITS TWO-DAY SCHEDULE.</p><p>THEY AGREED TO HOLD FURTHER NEGOTIATIONS TO STRIVE FOR THE RESUMPTION OF THE TWO COUNTRIES' DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS BROKEN DURING THE 1982 MALVINAS WAR. THE NEXT SUBSTANTIVE MEETING WILL BE HELD ON FEBRUARY 14-15, 1990.</p><p>DURING THE MADRID TALKS, THE TWO COUNTRIES PUT ASIDE THE CONTROVERSIAL ISSUE OF SOVEREIGNTY OVER THE SOUTH ATLANTIC ISLANDS, WHICH BLOCKED THEIR FIRST RECONCILIATION ATTEMPT IN BERN, SWITZERLAND, IN 1984.</p><p>THE COMMUNIQUE SAID THAT THE TALKS ALLOWED BOTH SIDES TO HOLD THEIR RESPECTIVE POSITIONS ON THE ISSUE OF SOVEREIGNTY OVER THE ISLANDS AND THAT NOTHING OF THEIR AGREEMENT COULD BE INTERPRETED AS A CHANGE IN THEIR POSITIONS.</p><p>AS REGARDS FISHERIES, THE COMMUNIQUE SAID, BOTH DELEGATIONS HAD DIFFERENT POSITIONS BUT AGREED "TO SET UP A WORKING GROUP WITH A VIEW TO MAKING PROPOSALS" TO BE SUBMITTED TO FURTHER DISCUSSIONS.</p><p>ARGENTINA HOPES FOR THE LIFTING OF THE 150-MILE (240-KILOMETER) EXCLUSIVE ZONE AROUND THE MALVINAS ISLANDS IMPOSED BY BRITAIN AFTER THE 10-WEEK WAR, WHICH KILLED MORE THAN 1,000 PEOPLE.</p><p>A BRITISH TRADE MISSION WILL VISIT ARGENTINA FROM NOVEMBER 27 TO DECEMBER 1, THIS YEAR, AND A NEW CULTURAL AGREEMENT COULD BE EXPECTED AS NORMALIZATION ADVANCED FURTHER, ACCORDING TO THE DOCUMENT.</p><p>LINKS AND CONTACTS BETWEEN THE FALKLANDS AND THE CONTINENTAL MAINLAND WOULD BE DEVELOPED AS BENEFICIAL.</p><p>BRITAIN ALSO AGREED TO HELP ARGENTINA ESTABLISH ITS COOPERATIVE LINKS WITH THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY, WHICH HAS REJECTED COMMERCIAL TIES WITH THE LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRY BECAUSE OF ITS UNNORMALIZED RELATIONS WITH BRITAIN. BRITAIN IS ONE OF THE 12 MEMBERS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY.</p><p>DESCRIBING THE AGREEMENT AS REMARKABLE, TICKELL, THE BRITISH CHIEF NEGOTIATOR, SAID: "WE HAVE TAKEN A VERY LARGE STEP TOWARDS DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS ... WE ARE NOT THERE YET."</p><p>ARGENTINE NEGOTIATOR DEL SOLAR EXPRESSED OPTIMISM FOR THE RESUMPTION OF FULL DIPLOMATIC TIES AND SAID: "MY IMPRESSION IS THAT THIS WILL NOT BE TOO LONG."</p><p>THE ANGLO-ARGENTINE RAPPROCHEMENT WAS INITIATED BY ARGENTINA'S PRESIDENT CARLOS MENEM, WHO TOOK OFFICE IN JULY. MENEM SAID ON THE SECOND DAY AFTER HIS INAUGURATION THAT TALKS COULD BE RESUMED ON RESTORATION OF THE TWO COUNTRIES' DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITHOUT DISCUSSING SOVEREIGNTY OVER THE MALVINAS ISLANDS.</p><p>HE VOICED THE HOPE THAT THE DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS COULD RESUME BY CHRISTMAS, A TIMETABLE THAT BRITAIN SAID IS EXTREMELY AMBITIOUS.</p><p>HOWEVER, OBSERVERS HERE SAID THE MADRID AGREEMENT HAS PAVED THE WAY FOR BRITAIN AND ARGENTINA TO TALK TO EACH OTHER WITHOUT TOUCHING THE THORNY ISSUE OF SOVEREIGNTY OVER THE ISLANDS.</p><p>BY REACHING THE AGREEMENT, BRITAIN AND ARGENTINA HAVE TAKEN A STRIDE TOWARD RECONCILIATION, THEY SAID.</p></body></html>