<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0719"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0719"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0719</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0719 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 13 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] REBEL GUERRILLA UNITS HAVE TAKEN CONTROL OF THE COASTAL RAILROAD LINES NEAR LA CASONA, JIQUILISCO JURISDICTION. THE REBELS HAVE SET UP BARRICADES AND HAVE COMPLETELY PARALYZED VEHICLE TRAFFIC. A RAILROAD BRIDGE BETWEEN TIERRA BLANCA AND JIQUILISCO HAS BEEN PARTIALLY DESTROYED WITH DYNAMITE. THE STRETCH BETWEEN SAN MARCOS LEMPA AND TIERRA BLANCA HAS BEEN CONTROLLED IN THE VICINITY OF THE 14 JULY NEIGHBORHOOD.</p><p>A REPORT FROM LA PAZ DEPARTMENT SAYS THAT AT 1145 [1745 GMT] TODAY A SOLDIER FROM THE ARMED FORCES ENGINEERS' MILITARY DETACHMENT [DMIFA] FIRED A RIFLE AT A CIVILIAN WOMAN, WOUNDING HER IN THE HEAD. THIS HAPPENED IN THE 27 SEPTEMBER NEIGHBORHOOD IN ZACATECOLUCA, LA PAZ DEPARTMENT. DMIFA SOLDIERS CONTINUE TO INFLICT CASUALTIES AMONG THE CIVILIANS, AS A RESULT OF THEIR DESPERATION.</p><p>RADIO VENCEREMOS AND RADIO FARABUNDO MARTI IN A NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY NETWORK REPEAT THE REPORT THAT THE AIR FORCE IS STRAFFING THE INCA FACTORY IN SOYAPANGA AND PRADOS DE VENECIA, WHERE IT HAS KILLED 3 AND WOUNDED 12 CIVILIANS. HOMES HAVE BEEN TOTALLY DESTROYED IN PRADOS DE VENECIA AS A RESULT OF THE INDISCRIMINATE STRAFFING BY THE ARMED FORCES.</p><p>WE HAVE A REPORT FROM THE FELICIANO AMA WESTERN FRONT TO THE EFFECT THAT THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] IS HOLDING POSITIONS IN VILLA LOS NARANJOS AND LA UNION NEIGHBORHOOD IN SANTA ANA. REPORTS ADD THAT REVOLUTIONARY FIGHTING IS TAKING PLACE IN SANTA ANA, WHERE THE FMLN RED AND WHITE FLAG IS BEING HOISTED. GREETINGS TO THE FIGHTERS IN SANTA ANA CITY, AND FORWARD!</p></body></html>