<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1125"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1125"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1125</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1125 (UNISYS)</p><p>LIMA, 18 FEB 90 (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [SPEECH] [PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA] [EXCERPT] PERU HAS FACED THE GREAT ADVERSITY OF FOREIGN IMPERIALISM. PERU, A POOR AND WEAK BUT SOVEREIGN COUNTRY, HAS RAISED ITS VOICE TO FACE THE POWER AND GREED OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANKING SECTORS. PERU AND THE PERUVIAN STATE HAVE REFUSED TO PAY AN UNJUST DEBT. THIS WILL BE FOREVER REGARDED AS THE PIONEER AND VANGUARD ATTITUDE OF THE THIRD WORLD.</p><p>NO ONE WILL EVER FORGET THAT, IN THE FIRST TWO MONTHS OF MY ADMINISTRATION, THE PERUVIAN RESOURCES THAT WERE SCHEDULED TO BE USED TO PAY THE FOREIGN DEBT WERE INSTEAD USED FOR THE BENEFIT OF PERU. ALL PERUVIANS ADMITTED AT THE TIME THAT WE HAD BEGUN A PROCESS OF CAPITALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT.</p><p>I HAVE COME HERE TODAY TO DELIVER SOME TRACTORS. BUT I WANT TO TELL YOU THAT DURING THE APRA [AMERICAN POPULAR REVOLUTIONARY ALLIANCE] ADMINISTRATION THE NUMBER OF TRACTORS HAS DOUBLED. WHEN THE APRA ASSUMED POWER IN 1985, THERE WERE 5,060 TRACTORS IN PERU. BUT AFTER I DELIVER THESE ITALIAN TRACTORS, THERE WILL BE 11,200. THIS MEANS THAT THE AMOUNT OF LAND BEING FARMED MECHANICALLY IN PERU HAS DOUBLED. APPLAUSE, CHEERS OF "ALAN, ALAN"</p><p>THE HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS THAT HAS BEEN INVESTED IN EQUIPMENT OPERATING IN PERU TODAY IS THE SAME MONEY THAT, IN A SOVEREIGN DECISION, THE FATHERLAND REFUSED TO SEND ABROAD TO FOREIGN INTERNATIONAL BANKS. SHOUTS OF "WELL DONE" THE ANTI-IMPERIALISTIC IDEAL THAT WE UPHOLD IS BASED ON THIS MAIN PRINCIPLE: TO RETAIN OUR RESOURCES WITHIN PERU.</p><p>WE HAVE ALSO RAISED OUR VOICES TO DEFEND THE SOVEREIGNTY AND INTEGRITY OF OUR CONTINENT, BECAUSE WE ARE A PROUD AND FREE CONTINENT. WHEN WE SAW MILITARISTIC IMPERIALISM THREATEN AND INVADE A BROTHER COUNTRY, WE HAD THE HONOR -- THE SAD HONOR -- OF BEING THE ONLY ONE TO RAISE ITS VOICE AND TO MAKE IMPERIALISM, DUE TO THE FIRMNESS OF THE PERUVIAN STANCE, HEED OUR DEMANDS AND WITHDRAW ITS INVADING TROOPS FROM PANAMA."</p><p>I REMEMBER THE NIGHT OF 20 DECEMBER 1989, WHEN AT 0500 GMT I WAS INFORMED FROM WASHINGTON THAT 24,000 AMERICAN SOLDIERS HAD OCCUPIED PANAMA. I RECEIVED MANY PHONE CALLS FROM PEOPLE WHO TOLD ME: IT IS A DONE DEED. LET THEM INVADE THE COUNTRY. WE DO NOT NEED TO CONFRONT THEM. I RECEIVED PHONE CALLS FROM PEOPLE IN PERU AND ABROAD TELLING ME THAT WE COULD NOT CONFRONT THEM, THAT WE COULD NOT MAKE ANY DEMANDS. THEY SAID FOR US TO ACT AS IF NOTHING HAD HAPPENED. LET US RECOGNIZE THE GOVERNMENT THAT THEY HAVE PUT IN POWER. BUT I SAID NO. PEOPLE SHOUT "WELL DONE" I WAS TOLD: IF YOU KEEP SILENT, YOU CAN SOLVE YOUR PROBLEM WITH THE IMF. BUT I SAID NO, BECAUSE THE DIGNITY OF A NATION IS NOT FOR SALE. NO, BECAUSE THE DIGNITY OF LATIN AMERICA CANNOT BE BOUGHT. APPLAUSE, CHEERS OF "ALAN, ALAN"</p><p>CAUSING FEAR AND ASTONISHMENT FOR MANY PEOPLE IN PERU AND THROUGHOUT LATIN AMERICA, I SAID: WE ARE POOR. WE HAVE NO GREAT MILITARY POWER. WE HAVE NO PLANES OR BOMBS. WE HAVE NO BANKS FILLED WITH MILLIONS. BUT WE HAVE THE POWER OF REASON, WHICH IS MORE POWERFUL. WE HAVE THE POWER OF JUSTICE, WHICH IS GREATER. WE HAVE THE POWER OF FREEDOM, WHICH IS MORE IMPORTANT. I SAID THAT WE WOULD RECALL THE PERUVIAN AMBASSADOR FROM WASHINGTON. WE WOULD WITHDRAW FROM THE MILITARY ALLIANCE THAT WE HAVE WITH THE UNITED STATES, WHICH ALLOWED IT TO PERPETRATE THIS INVASION. WE WOULD TELL THE UNITED STATES THAT UNTIL THE LAST SOLDIER WAS WITHDRAWN, WE WOULD NOT SIT AT ANY NEGOTIATING TABLE, NOT ON DRUGS OR ON ANY OTHER SUBJECT.</p><p>BUT THE PERUVIAN RIGHTIST SECTORS DESCRIBED EVERYTHING I SAID ON 21 DECEMBER, EIGHT HOURS AFTER THE PANAMANIAN INVASION, AS INSANE. THEY DESCRIBED IT AS DEMAGOGIC THEATRICS. THEY SAID WE SHOULD COMPLY WITH THE U.S. ACTIONS. BUT I SAID NO. ALTHOUGH WE RESPECT THE UNITED STATES AND ITS PEOPLE, WE DO NOT TOLERATE IMPERIALISTIC IMPOSITIONS. WE DO NOT TOLERATE OTHER COUNTRIES INTERVENING IN THE SOVEREIGN AFFAIRS OF SISTER-NATIONS.</p><p>I CAN STATE WITH GREAT SATISFACTION THAT, 24 HOURS BEFORE THE CARTAGENA SUMMIT AND 2 MONTHS AFTER THE INVASION, THE LAST U.S. SOLDIER WITHDREW FROM PANAMA. THIS WAS THE SINE QUA NON CONDITION FOR MY ATTENDANCE AT THE SUMMIT. APPLAUSE, CHEERS</p><p>THIS PROVES THAT YOU CAN BE POOR AND ECONOMICALLY WEAK, BUT THAT YOU CAN HAVE THE STRENGTH THAT COMES FROM REASON, FROM MORAL PRINCIPLES; THAT YOU CAN HAVE JUSTICE ON YOUR SIDE; THAT YOU CAN SUCCEED, THAT SOONER OR LATER YOU WILL BE SUCCESSFUL. PERHAPS JUSTICE MAY COME LATE, BUT IT COMES. WHEN I SEE THE OLIGARCHIC ATTACK OF THE PREPOTENT ECONOMIC POWER HITTING PERU, I TELL THE PEOPLE THAT THE RIGHTIST SECTORS MAY BE VICTORIOUS. BUT IT WILL BE AN EPHEMERAL, TEMPORARY, AND MOMENTARY VICTORY BECAUSE IT IS THE PEOPLE WHO WILL SUCCEED, THE PEOPLE WHO WILL CONQUER, BECAUSE THE PEOPLE ARE RIGHT, THE PEOPLE HAVE JUSTICE ON THEIR SIDE, AND BECAUSE PERU BELONGS TO THE PEOPLE. APPLAUSE, CHEERS [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>