<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1280"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1280"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="PANAMA CITY (PANAMA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1280</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1280 (BOEING)</p><p>PANAMA CITY (PANAMA), 10 MAY 90 (LA ESTRELLA DE PANAMA) -- [STATEMENT] [PERUVIAN EMBASSY IN PANAMA CITY] [TEXT] THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY SALUTES THE HONORABLE FOREIGN MINISTRY AND IN REFERENCE TO NOTE NO. A.J.122 FROM THAT MINISTRY IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE THAT WE HAVE DULY ACKNOWLEDGED NOTE DPG 1794 OF 30 APRIL 1990 FROM THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, THROUGH WHICH THIS EMBASSY HAS BEEN INFORMED THAT OUR REFUGEE GONZALO GONZALEZ RIVERA IS ACCUSED OF BEING THE MASTERMIND OF CHILD MARCOS ALBERTO RODRIGUEZ JUSTINES' MURDER ACCORDING TO CANCIO CIACCI TASON'S STATEMENTS.</p><p>IN THIS REGARD, THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY REITERATES THAT, THROUGH NOTE NO.5-20-M/002 DATED 8 JANUARY 1990, IT NOTIFIED THE PANAMANIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY THAT DIPLOMATIC ASYLUM HAD BEEN GRANTED TO 12 PERSONS WHO CAME TO THIS MISSION'S RESIDENCE, INCLUDING FORMER DEFENSE FORCES MAJOR GONZALO GONZALEZ RIVERA, AND REQUESTED THAT SAFE-CONDUCTS BE GRANTED FOR THEM TO TRAVEL ABROAD. WE MIGHT STRESS THAT SUCH GRANTING OF ASYLUM AND REQUESTING SAFE-CONDUCTS, AS WAS INDICATED IN THIS EMBASSY'S NOTE NO.5-20-/M-027 DATED 2 MARCH 1990, WAS BASED ON THE QUALIFICATION GRANTED TO THIS EMBASSY AS THE STATE GRANTING THE ASYLUM ACCORDING TO THE CONVENTION ON DIPLOMATIC ASYLUM SIGNED IN CARACAS IN MARCH 1954. THEREFORE, THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT CANNOT TAKE INTO CONSIDERATION ANY ACTIONS OF WHICH THE REFUGEE MAY BE ACCUSED, OR ANY LEGAL SITUATION THAT MAY PREVAIL AFTER THE SUBJECT HAS BEEN GRANTED ASYLUM.</p><p>HOWEVER, AND WITHOUT GOING AGAINST WHAT HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY STATED, THE REFUGEE GONZALO GONZALEZ IS WILLING TO RENDER TESTIMONY BEFORE AN AUTHORIZED LEGAL OFFICIAL SO AS TO CLARIFY HIS SITUATION. THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY WILL ALLOW THAT OFFICIAL TO ENTER THE PREMISES OF THE EMBASSY FOR THIS PURPOSE.</p><p>AT THIS TIME, THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY, BASED ON THE CLEAR DISPOSITIONS OF THE CARACAS CONVENTION ON DIPLOMATIC ASYLUM -- THE INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT IN EFFECT BETWEEN PANAMA AND PERU -- REITERATES ONCE AGAIN THE REQUEST FOR A SAFE-CONDUCT FOR THE AFOREMENTIONED REFUGEE.</p><p>THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY AVAILS ITSELF OF THIS OPPORTUNITY TO REAFFIRM ITS HIGHEST AND MOST DISTINGUISHED CONSIDERATION TO THE HONORABLE FOREIGN MINISTRY.</p><p>PANAMA, 7 MAY 1990</p></body></html>