<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0695"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0695"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HUANCAYO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0695</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0695 (GE)</p><p>HUANCAYO, 12 NOV 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] CIVILIAN AUTHORITIES IN THE CITY OF HUANCAYO, 415 KM EAST OF LIMA, HAVE REPORTED THAT 35 EXPLOSIONS WERE REPORTED TODAY BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE BALLOTING STATIONS FOR THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS. THE EXPLOSIONS DID NOT RESULT IN ANY CASUALTIES.</p><p>ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL REPORTS, IN HUARAZ, THE CAPITAL OF ANCASH DEPARTMENT, 409 KM NORTH OF LIMA, EIGHT EXPLOSIONS WERE REPORTED NEAR THE HOUSES OF THE PREFECT (GOVERNOR), A DISTRICT MAYOR, AND AN AGRICULTURE MINISTRY OFFICIAL, AS WELL AS NEAR FOUR SHOPS AND WAREHOUSES OF A STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISE.</p><p>IN HUANCAYO, THE CAPITAL OF JUNIN DEPARTMENT, THE HOUSE OF A CANDIDATE, SEVERAL SHOPS, SOME GOVERNMENT OFFICES, AND SCHOOLS HAVE BEEN BOMBED, ACCORDING TO THE LOCAL PREFECTURE.</p><p>SATURNINO PALOMINO TUNQUI, 25, WAS INJURED WHILE HE WAS STANDING IN A LINE IN FRONT OF ONE OF THE FIVE SCHOOLS WHERE VOTES ARE BEING CAST IN HUANCAYO. THE BULLET WAS THE SAME CALIBER AS THOSE USED BY THE ARMY.</p><p>THE TERRORIST SHINING PATH HAS CALLED AN "ARMED STRIKE" FROM 11 NOVEMBER UNTIL 13 NOVEMBER IN JUNIN, AYACUCHO, PASCO, AND HUANUCO DEPARTMENTS.</p><p>THE "ARMED STRIKE" TODAY CAUSED SERIOUS DELAYS IN THE BUS SERVICE AS PERUVIANS GO TO ELECT ABOUT 13,700 LOCAL, PROVINCIAL, AND DISTRICT OFFICIALS, INCLUDING MAYORS AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.</p><p>IN THE CITIES OF HUANCAYO AND HUARAZ, THE ARMED FORCES, WHICH ALONG WITH THE NATIONAL POLICE HAVE BEEN MOBILIZED NATIONWIDE TO PROTECT THE ELECTIONS, WERE IN CHARGE OF BUS SERVICE. ON 11 NOVEMBER, THE SHINING PATH DYNAMITED A BUS NEAR THE CITIES OF HUANCAYO AND HUARAZ AFTER THE PASSENGERS WERE FORCED TO DISEMBARK.</p></body></html>