<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0214"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0214"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0214</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0214 (ADS)</p><p>LA PAZ, 26 MAY 89 (RADIO FIDES) -- [EXCERPT] THE MURDER BY MACHINEGUN FIRE OF TWO U.S. MISSIONARIES TODAY PROMPTED AN EMERGENCY MEETING OF THE BOLIVIAN POLICE HIGH COMMAND.</p><p>THE U.S. EMBASSY IN LA PAZ WILL COOPERATE IN THE INVESTIGATIONS OF THE MURDER BECAUSE THEY CONSIDERED AN ANTI-U.S. ACTION.</p><p>ACCORDING TO SOME POLITICAL REACTIONS, THIS CRIMES COMMITTED BY THE SELF-STYLED ZARATE-WILKA GROUP, SHOWS THAT THERE ARE ARMED GROUPS OPERATING IN BOLIVIA.</p><p>LESS THAN 40 HOURS AFTER THE MURDER OF THE TWO MORMON MISSIONARIES BY AN IRREGULAR ARMED GROUP IN LA PAZ, THE POLICE HIGH COMMAND HAS DECLARED AN EMERGENCY STATE ALL CADRES IN AN EFFORT TO CAPTURE THE PERPETRATORS OF THIS CRIME.</p><p>THE BOLIVIAN POLICE HIGH COMMAND THIS MORNING CALLED AN EMERGENCY MEETING TO BEGIN THE OFFICIAL INVESTIGATIONS. AFTER BRIEFING THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC, INTERIOR MINISTER EDUARDO PEREZ BELTRAN ALSO WENT TO THE POLICE HEADQUARTERS TO SEEK FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE MURDER CASE.</p><p>THE INTERIOR MINISTER PROMISED TO RELEASE THE FIRST RESULTS OF THE INVESTIGATIONS AT 1700 THIS AFTERNOON. TODD RAY WILSON, 20 YEARS OLD, AND JEFFREY BRENT BALL, 21, WERE MURDERED BY MACHINEGUN BURSTS WHEN THEY WERE WALKING HOME ON ANCASH STREET ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT.</p><p>THE ZARATE WILKA GROUP HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE MURDER OF THESE TWO MISSIONARIES. THIS GROUP REPORTEDLY COMMITTED THIS CRIME TO PROTEST U.S. MEDDLING IN BOLIVIA.</p></body></html>