<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0083"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0083"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-02-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0083</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0083 (NOSC)</p><p>LIMA, 6 FEB 89 -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS BY PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA] [EXCERPT] [REPORTER] ...TO AN ARRESTED LEADER OF THE TUPAC AMARU REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT MEAN THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS ENGAGED IN A DIALOGUE WITH THAT GROUP?</p><p>[GARCIA] THINGS SHOULD BE PROPERLY CLARIFIED BECAUSE ONE SHOULD NOT BE INFLUENCED BY REPORTS OR ANECDOTES. THERE IS AN ESSENTIAL FACT: A HARD BLOW HAS BEEN DEALT TO SUBVERSION WITH THE ARREST OF ONE OF ITS PRINCIPAL CHIEFTAINS--NOT A LEADER BUT A CHIEFTAIN. PERU HAS BEEN THE TARGET OF BLOODY TERRORIST ATTACKS. THERE CAN BE NO CONCESSIONS FOR TERRORISTS OTHER THAN THOSE GRANTED BY THE LAW. THIS FACT CANNOT BE DISPELLED BY AN ANECDOTE LIKE THE ONE I READ IN THE NEWSPAPERS TODAY. THE ESSENTIAL FACT IS THAT THIS ARREST [OF VICTOR POLAY CAMPOS] IS A MAJOR BLOW TO SUBVERSION. IT WAS NOT MERELY GOOD LUCK, BUT IT WAS THE RESULT OF WORK AND FOLLOW-UP BY THE INTELLIGENCE SERVICES OF THE ARMED FORCES AND THE POLICE. I BELIEVE THIS IS THE KEY POINT. I HAVE SEEN THAT ATTENTION HAS BEEN GIVEN TO A VISIT [PAID BY PRIME MINISTER ARMANDO VILLANUEVA TO POLAY CAMPOS IN PRISON] WHICH WAS NEITHER A COURTESY VISIT NOR AN EXPRESSION OF SUPPORT, BUT JUST A SUPERVISORY ACT, GIVEN THE IMPORTANCE OF THE FACTS. ANOTHER OBJECTIVE OF THE VISIT, WHICH FOR SURE HAS ALREADY BEEN COMMENTED ON BY SOME COMMUNIST POLITICIANS, WAS TO OBSERVE THE CONDITION OF THE DETAINEE. THE VISIT DID NOT MEAN THAT THE DETAINEE WAS GRANTED SPECIAL STATUS. WE DO NOT GRANT SPECIAL STATUS TO ANYONE, MUCH LESS TO THESE MURDERERS WHO HAVE STAINED THE NATION WITH BLOOD. THE FULL WEIGHT OF THE LAW MUST BE STRICTLY ENFORCED ON THESE INDIVIDUALS. CONSEQUENTLY, THE VISIT BY PRIME MINISTER ARMANDO VILLANUEVA TO THE ANTITERRORIST DIRECTORATE DOES NOT MEAN THAT A DIALOGUE HAS BEGUN OR THAT SOMEONE IS BEING PRAISED, AS SOME ILL-INTENTIONED MASS MEDIA WILL PROBABLY SAY. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p></body></html>