<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1272"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1272"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1272</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1272 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 8 MAY 90 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS WARNED TODAY THAT THE POSSIBLE REPLACEMENT OF GENERAL HUMBERTO LARIOS BY COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CURRENT CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE ARMED FORCES, "WILL SERIOUSLY AFFECT THE NEGOTIATION PROCESS" WITH THE GOVERNMENT, WHICH WILL BE RESUMED THIS COMING 16 MAY IN VENEZUELA.</p><p>THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) RELEASED A COMMUNIQUE HERE TODAY ON THE CHANGE IN THE SALVADORAN MILITARY LEADERSHIP AS WELL AS THE POSSIBLE RETIREMENT OF DEPUTY DEFENSE MINISTER COLONEL ORLANDO ZEPEDA.</p><p>"THESE CHANGES WILL SERIOUSLY AFFECT THE CONCERTED CEASE-FIRE PROCESS, BECAUSE ONE CANNOT REACH AGREEMENTS BASED ON DEMOCRATIZATION WHILE IMPUNITY PREVAILS IN THE ARMY AND IT IS NOT SUBJECTED TO A THOROUGH PURGE," THE FMLN ADDED.</p><p>GEN LARIOS TOLD NEWSMEN YESTERDAY ABOUT HIS POSSIBLE REPLACEMENT BY COL EMILIO PONCE IN THE DEFENSE MINISTRY IS A CHANGE WHICH HE REGARDED AS "NATURAL."</p><p>"EVENTUALLY THERE MAY BE A CHANGE OF THAT SORT. IT IS A NATURAL AND ROUTINE CHANGE," THE DEFENSE MINISTER SAID WHEN ASKED ABOUT PERSISTENT RUMORS TO THIS EFFECT IN THAT PAST FEW DAYS IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>COL PONCE, A MEMBER OF THE 1966 GRADUATION CLASS KNOWN AS "LA TANDONA," CURRENTLY HAS GREAT INFLUENCE AMONG THE ARMED FORCES OFFICERS. HE HAS HELD THE POST OF CHIEF OF STAFF SINCE THE MIDDLE OF LAST YEAR.</p><p>THE FMLN COMMUNIQUE STATED THAT PONCE'S REMOVAL FROM THE POST OF CHIEF OF STATE "WOULD BREAK THE CHAIN OF RESPONSIBILITY OF THE HIGH COMMAND IN THE ASSASSINATION OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS." THE JESUIT PRIESTS WERE ASSASSINATED ON 16 NOVEMBER BY ALLEGED ARMED FORCES MEMBERS, WHO WERE TURNED OVER TO JUDICIARY AUTHORITIES.</p></body></html>