<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0161"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0161"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0161</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0161 (BELLCORE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 30 MAR 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] A REPORT FROM SAN MIGUEL DEPARTMENT STATES THAT FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT ANTIAIRCRAFT UNITS AMBUSHED A SALVADORAN AIR FORCE HELICOPTER IN ARENALES CANTON AT 1700 GMT ON 29 MARCH THAT WAS TRAVELING FROM USULUTAN TO SAN MIGUEL DEPARTMENT. OUR UNITS' EFFECTIVE ANTIAIRCRAFT FIRE HIT AND DAMAGED THE HELICOPTER. THE HELICOPTER WAS FORCED TO MAKE AN EMERGENCY LANDING IN JUCUAPA.</p><p>THIS REPORT CONFIRMS THAT THE PILOT WAS KILLED AND ONE CREWMEMBER WAS INJURED AS A RESULT OF THE EMERGENCY LANDING. WE REPEAT: THE PILOT WAS KILLED AND ONE CREWMEMBER WAS INJURED AS A RESULT OF THE EMERGENCY LANDING. THAT IS THE REPORT WE ARE RECEIVING FROM JUCUAPA, WHERE THE HELICOPTER WAS FORCED TO MAKE AN EMERGENCY LANDING.</p><p>THE REPORT ADDS THAT A FEW MINUTES AFTER THE AMBUSH, A HELICOPTER GUNSHIP ARRIVED IN THE AREA LAUNCHING ROCKETS AND INDISCRIMINATELY FIRING AT THE LA NORIA AND LA PENA CANTONS' CIVILIAN POPULATION. WE SEND OUR REVOLUTIONARY GREETINGS TO SAN MIGUEL DEPARTMENT, BECAUSE WE RECOGNIZE OUR COMRADES' GOOD MARKSMANSHIP.</p></body></html>