<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0741"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0741"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0741</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0741 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 14 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION, THIS IS A LAST-MINUTE REPORT FROM SAN SALVADOR: OUR FORCES HAVE OCCUPIED POSITIONS HELD BY THE NATIONAL POLICE IN CUSCATANCINGO. THE POLICEMEN WERE FORCED TO FLEE IN DISARRARY FROM A POSITION THAT THEY HAD HELD IN CUSCATANCINGO, NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE ENEMY IS USING M-79 ROCKET LAUNCHERS IN DOWNTOWN MEJICANOS. THE MARKET AREA AND THE PROJECTS HAVE BEEN AFFECTED.</p><p>WE REPEAT: A NATIONAL POLICE POSITION WAS ATTACKED BETWEEN 1310 AND 1350 [1910 AND 1950 GMT]. THE POLICEMEN, WHO ARE EXCELLENT AT REPRESSING THE PEOPLE AND THE COMMITTEES OF MOTHERS, FLED CUSCATANCINGO IN DISARRAY AFTER BEING ATTACKED BY FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT FORCES.</p><p>AT 1407 [2007 GMT], AN A-37 DRAGONFLY PLANE OVERFLEW AYUTUXTEPEQUE, MEJICANOS, AND ZACAMIL. OUR FIGHTERS ARE TRAINED TO FIRE AT THESE PLANES. THIRTY MINUTES AGO, A PUSH-AND-PULL 0-2 PLANE DROPPED BOMBS ON ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD AND A C-47 MACHINEGUNNED THE AREA.</p><p>AN A-37 PLANE IS NOW OVERFLYING NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR AFTER OUR COMRADES OCCUPIED A POSITION THAT THE NATIONAL POLICE HAD HELD IN CUSCATANCINGO.</p></body></html>