<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1235"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1235"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1235</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1235 (BOEING)</p><p>BOGOTA, 26 APR 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] A FEW MINUTES AGO AN OFFICIAL SPOKESMAN FROM THE NATIONAL SOCIAL SECURITY FUND [CNPS] READ THE FOLLOWING COMMUNIQUE CONFIRMING THE DEATH OF MR. PIZARRO.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [UNIDENTIFIED SPOKESMAN] THE CNPS REGRETS TO INFORM THE PEOPLE THAT PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE CARLOS PIZARRO LEONGOMEZ WAS ADMITTED TO THE EMERGENCY ROOM THIS MORNING, AFTER HAVING BEEN SHOT SEVERAL TIMES IN THE HEAD AND NECK A FEW MINUTES EARLIER. THESE SHOTS CAUSED VERY SERIOUS NEUROLOGICAL AND CEREBRAL WOUNDS AS WELL AS GRAVE WOUNDS TO THE FACE AND NECK.</p><p>DESPITE THE EFFORTS OF A TEAM OF DOCTORS, INCLUDING GENERAL SURGEONS, NEUROSURGEONS, ANESTHESISTS, OPHTHALMOLOGISTS, DOCTORS FROM THE INTENSIVE CARE UNIT, AND OTHER STAFF MEMBERS OF THE CNPS, IT WAS NOT POSSIBLE TO SAVE HIS LIFE AND HE DIED [7-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] [END RECORDING]</p><p>...GOT INTO AN ALTERCATION WITH THE M-19 LEADERS WHO WERE THERE AT THE TIME SHOUTING SLOGANS. THEY DID NOT ALLOW THE CNPS SPOKESMAN TO FINISH READING THE COMMUNIQUE.</p><p>THE AUTHORITIES HAVE AGAIN CORDONED OFF THE AREA. THE M-19 MEMBERS ARE PROTESTING THE MURDER OF PIZARRO LEONGOMEZ [7-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] I WOULD LIKE TO MENTION THAT THE NATIONAL POLICE, THE F-2, AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTAMENT OF SECURITY ARE CURRENTLY LOOKING FOR AT LEAST TWO COLLABORATORS OF THE PAID ASSASSIN WHO MURDERED M-19 LEADER PIZARRO LEONGOMEZ.</p><p>THE AUTHORITIES HAVE REPORTED THAT AT LEAST TWO MEN COLLABORATED WITH THE MURDERER INSIDE THE HK-1400 PLANE THAT WAS FLYING BETWEEN BOGOTA AND BARRANQUILLA. THE AUTHORITIES HAVE ALSO REPORTED THAT THE MACHINEGUN USED BY THE PAID ASSASSIN, WHO IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AS ALVARO RODRIGUEZ, WAS HIDDEN IN THE BATHROOM. NOW THE AUTHORITIES ARE TRYING TO ESTABLISH IF THE WEAPON WAS PLACED THERE AT THE BUCARAMANGA AIRPORT, WHERE THE PLANE HAD BEEN FOR THE PAST FEW HOURS, OR IF IT WAS PLACED THERE IN BOGOTA.</p><p>THE POLICE HAD SEARCHED THE PAID ASSASSIN TWICE BEFORE THE INCIDENT BUT DID NOT FIND ANY WEAPONS.</p></body></html>