<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0892"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0892"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0892</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0892 (GTE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 28 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [REPORT] [TEXT] [BEGIN RECORDING] [COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHAIRMAN OF THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF] THIS AGAIN PROVES THE AGGRESSION BY THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] AGAINST THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, AGAINST POOR PEOPLE, AND AGAINST OUR COUNTRY'S DISTINGUISHED POLITICIANS. THIS IS ADDED TO THE INNOCENT LIVES TAKEN BY THE FMLN FROM THE SALVADORAN POPULATION. I WANT TO TELL YOU WE HAVE A PERSON UNDER ARREST WHO WAS WOUNDED RIGHT WHERE THE ATTACK TOOK PLACE, BY DR. GUERRERO'S BODYGUARD. WE HAVE HIS IDENTITY, HE IS AFFILITATED TO THE FMLN, BUT WE WILL NOT RELEASE HIS NAME WHILE THE INVESTIGATION IS UNDER WAY. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ARE THE BEST WITNESS TO THE FMLN AGGRESSION AGAINST OUR PEOPLE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>[ANNOUNCER] PONCE ALSO SAID THAT THE TERRORISTS CARRY OUT THESE ACTIONS AS PART OF THEIR STRATEGY TO SCARE THE POPULATION.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PONCE] WE WANT TO SAY THAT CONDITIONS TO ENABLE MARXISM AND THE FMLN TO WIN ARE PRACTICALLY NIL. THE PEOPLE COMPLETELY REJECT THEM. THE FMLN ARE USING THAT LYING AND LOSING VENCEREMOS RADIO STATION TO FOOL THEIR OWN CADRES. IN NICARAGUA, THERE WERE SOME STATIONS THAT WERE IN NETWORK WITH THIS LYING AND LOSING VENCEREMOS RADIO STATION, BROADCASTING FALSE REPORTS ABOUT EL SALVADOR. THIS IS ALSO PART OF THE AGGRESSION. TO ALLOW THEIR SO-CALLED HIGH-RANKING FMLN COMMANDERS TO BE IN NICARAGUA IS ALSO PART OF THE AGGRESSION. NO ONE CAN IGNORE THE AGGRESSION THAT THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN EXERTING FOR A LONG TIME AGAINST THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND PEOPLE.</p><p>[UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] HAVING FOUND THESE SOPHISTICATED WEAPONS, DOES IT MEAN YOU MAY EXPECT THE AGGRESSIVE COUNTEROFFENSIVE THESE GROUPS ARE LAUNCHING MAY WIDEN?</p><p>[PONCE] DEFINITELY NOT. WE BELIEVE THEIR CADRES ARE DECIMATED. THIS COULD AFFECT MAINLY OUR AIR FORCE; HOWEVER, WE ARE TAKING THE PROPER TACTICAL AND TECHNICAL PREVENTIVE MEASURES. WHAT SHOULD BE VERY CLEAR TO ALL SALVADORANS IS THAT FOR THE FMLN TO ATTAIN POWER, WHICH IS THEIR GOAL, THEY WILL HAVE TO CLIMB OVER THE BODY OF THE LAST ARMED FORCES SOLDIER. [END RECORDING]</p><p>[ANNOUNCER] PONCE ALSO SAID THAT THE MISSILES AND OTHER WEAPONS SENT BY ORTEGA FOR THE FMLN ARE AGRESSIONS AGAINST THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, EXPLAINING THAT IT WAS A NICARAGUAN WHO LIVES IN THIS CAPITAL WHO IDENTIFIED THE MAN WHO PILOTED THE SMALL AIRCRAFT CARRYING THE WEAPONS FOR THE TERRORISTS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PONCE] HE SAID THAT IT WAS QUIROS GARCIA. HOWEVER, THAT EVENING HE CALLED BACK AND SAID THAT THE PILOT SHOULD HAVE PART OF HIS THUMB MISSING, AND TO PLEASE CHECK HIM OUT. THE BODY WE HAVE WAS CHECKED AND ONE OF THE THUMBS HAS A PART MISSING. TO US THIS IS IRREFUTABLE PROOF. WE ALL KNOW OF ORTEGA'S CYNCISM. ON THE ONE HAND, HE MADE PROMISES AT ESQUIPULAS II, SIGNING AGREEMENTS HE WAS NOT PREPARED TO IMPLEMENT; HE WOULD NOT DO IT SINCE HE WAS REALLY DOING THESE OTHER THINGS. HE IS THE SAME AS THE FMLN. THE FMLN WAS DISCUSSING PEACE AT A DIALOGUE TABLE WHILE IT WAS PREPARING FOR THIS OFFENSIVE. IT IS A MOCKERY OF THE PEOPLE, BECAUSE THEIR DESIRE FOR PEACE HAS BEEN FOOLED WITH. DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC OPINION HAVE BEEN FOOLED. [END RECORDING]</p><p>[ANNOUNCER] FINALLY, PONCE SAID THE SUBVERSIVE GROUPS HAVE LOW MORALE AND ARE DESPERATE, BECAUSE IF DANIEL ORTEGA LOSES THE ELECTIONS, THEY, TOO, WILL LOSE, AND FOREVER. ADDITIONALLY, THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE DO NOT SUPPORT THEIR IRRATIONAL ACTIONS THAT ONLY PRODUCE DEATH AND DESTRUCTION.</p></body></html>