<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1254"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1254"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1254</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1254 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 1 MAY 90 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] FOLLOWING A MEETING OF THE GENERAL STAFF WITH ALL THE BRIGADE AND DETACHMENT COMMANDERS, THE ARMED FORCES TODAY ISSUED A PUBLIC COMMUNIQUE DESCRIBING THE RECENT STATEMENTS BY COLONEL SIGIFREDO OCHOA PEREZ AS IRRESPONSIBLE AND TENDENTIOUS. IN PARTS, THE COMMUNIQUE POINTED OUT THAT:</p><p>1. WE EMPHATICALLY AND CATEGORICALLY REJECT THE RECENT STATEMENTS BY DISCHARGED COL. SIGIFREDO OCHOA PEREZ PUBLISHED IN THE LOCAL AND FOREIGN MEDIA. THESE STATEMENTS ARE IRRESPONSIBLE AND TENDENTIOUS AND SEEK TO CREATE CONFUSION AND DISTRUST IN THE NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITIES BY TRYING TO INVOLVE THE MEMBERS OF THE HIGH COMMAND IN THE REGRETTABLE CASE OF THE DEATH OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS AND THEIR WORKERS.</p><p>2. WE DEMAND THAT BOTH COL. OCHOA PEREZ, AS WELL AS ANY OTHER PERSON HAVING ANY INFORMATION THAT COULD LEAD TO CLARIFYING THIS CASE OR ANY OTHER CASE, PRESENT IT TO THE CORRESPONDING TRIBUNALS AND NOT TRY TO OBTAIN POLITICAL PROFIT BASED ON ALLEGED STATEMENTS THAT ARE ADDED ON TO THE CAMPAIGN OF DISINFORMATION THAT IS BEING CARRIED OUT IN A SYSTEMATIC MANNER BY NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL MARXIST-LENINIST TERRORISTS.</p><p>3. WE CONDEMN SUCH IRRESPONSIBLE STATEMENTS AS THEY SEEK TO UNDERMINE THE INSTITUTIONALITY OF THE STATE, AND ONLY FAVOR THE DARK AND NEFARIOUS INTERESTS OF THE ENEMIES OF DEMOCRACY.</p><p>IN CONCLUDING, THE ARMED FORCES COMMUNIQUE REAFFIRMS ITS COMMITMENT TO THE INSTITUTIONALITY OF THE COUNTRY AND THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS AND POINTED OUT THAT THE INSTITUTION IS RULED BY SOLID PROFESSIONAL, MORAL, AND ETHICAL PRINCIPLES. WITH THIS STATEMENT, ALL THE COMMANDERS GIVE THEIR UNCONDITIONAL VOTE OF CONFIDENCE TO THE MILITARY HIGH COMMAND OF THE ARMED FORCES.</p></body></html>