<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0010"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0010"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0010</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0010 (NOSC)</p><p>LIMA, 9 JAN 90 (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [TEXT] PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA HAS CONFIRMED THAT THE U.S. TROOPS THAT SURROUNDED OUR DIPLOMATIC MISSION IN PANAMA WERE WITHDRAWN AFTER A FORMER MINISTER SURNAMED CORDOVA LEFT THE EMBASSY. THE MILITARY MAN, WHO IS INVOLVED IN A MURDER TRIAL, LEFT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY AS SOON AS HE LEARNED THAT THE EMBASSY CONSIDERED HIM PERSONA NON GRATA.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [GARCIA] I THINK JOURNALISTS HAVE MAGNIFIED THE ISSUE A BIT. AS FAR AS WE KNOW, PEOPLE SOUGHT PROTECTION....[CHANGES THOUGHT] SOMEONE ARRIVES AT THE DOOR OF THE EMBASSY AND ASKS FOR REFUGE IN VIEW OF A SITUATION OF FORCE. THE SITUATION IN PANAMA IS ABNORMAL; IT HAS BEEN TOTALLY INVADED BY 30,000 SOLDIERS.</p><p>SOME PERSONS ENTERED THE EMBASSY. AT LEAST ONE OF THEM HAD BEEN ALLEGEDLY LINKED WITH THE DEATH OF A PANAMANIAN MINISTER, A MR SPADAFORA, WHO WAS MURDERED. THE AUTHORITIES OF THE EMBASSY AND OF THE FOREIGN MINISTRY STATED THAT THIS PERSON'S PRESENCE WAS UNDESIRABLE. WE DO NOT REFUSE TO GRANT REFUGE--A CONDITION THAT IS GRANTED BEFORE GRANTING POLITICAL ASYLUM--TO WHOMEVER FEELS HARASSED OR MISTREATED. IN A CASE LIKE THIS, HOWEVER, IN WHICH THERE WAS AN ALLEGED INVOLVEMENT IN A MURDER WHICH WAS COMMITTED YEARS AGO, THIS PERSON--I BELIEVE HE IS A MAN SURNAMED CORDOVA, APPARENTLY A HIGHRANKING PANAMANIAN GUARD OFFICER--WAS TOLD THAT HIS PRESENCE WAS NOT WANTED. HE LEFT THE EMBASSY OF HIS OWN WILL.</p><p>THERE ARE OTHER PANAMANIAN DEFENSE FORCES OFFICERS AT THE EMBASSY, INCLUDING MR NORIEGA'S SECRETARY, BUT THEIR STATUS SHOULD BE ESTABLISHED BY PERU.</p><p>AN INCIDENT WAS REPORTED YESTERDAY, AS THE U.S. TROOPS SURROUNDED THE EMBASSY, DEPLOYING BARRIERS AND BARBED WIRE.</p><p>THERE WAS AN ATTEMPT TO DEPICT A DRAMATIC AND SPECTACULAR PICTURE OF A SIEGE OR PERHAPS OF AN INVASION OF THE EMBASSY.</p><p>FORTUNATELY, THE FOREIGN MINISTRY RESORTED TO DIPLOMATIC CHANNELS AND THE TROOPS WERE SOON WITHDRAWN. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>