<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0375"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0375"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY (ISRAEL)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0375</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0375 (BBN)</p><p>NO CITY (ISRAEL), 25 AUG 89 -- [INTERVIEW WITH NETANYAHU BY FRIEDMAN AND DAN] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [FRIEDMAN] YOU MUST KNOW BETTER THAN I THAT THE ISRAELI GOVERNMENT ITSELF, AND NOT ONLY INDIVIDUAL ISRAELI NATIONALS, ARE ACCUSED OF MAKING SECURITY-RELATED DEALS WITH VARIOUS REGIMES WHICH -- TO THE CIVILIZED WESTERN WORLD, AT LEAST -- APPEAR TO BE OF QUESTIONABLE REPUTE. WHAT ARE THE CRITERIA THAT GUIDE ISRAEL'S ACTIONS AS A STATE AND WHEN ISSUING PERMITS TO PRIVATE COMPANIES TO MAKE DEALS WITH SUCH COUNTRIES?</p><p>[NETANYAHU] I WILL NOT GO INTO THE DETAILS OF THE VARIOUS CRITERIA DETERMINED BY THE DEFENSE MINISTRY, WHICH ARE OFTEN RELATED TO OUR OWN DEFENSE ISSUES. ONE CRITERION, HOWEVER, IS CLEAR: WE DO NOT ALLOW COOPERATION WITH ELEMENTS WHICH ARE NOT STATE-AFFILIATED, SUCH AS CARTELS, GROUPS, OR GANGS. ALL THESE ARE OFF LIMITS. THERE IS NO QUESTION ABOUT THAT, AND NO GREY AREAS. THEREFORE, IF THE REPORTS FROM COLOMBIA ARE TRUE, THE PEOPLE ACTED COUNTER TO OUR POLICY AND IN VIOLATION OF THE LAW.</p><p>[FRIEDMAN] WHAT ABOUT WORKING WITH OPPOSITION MOVEMENTS TO CERTAIN REGIMES?</p><p>[NETANYAHU] I REPEAT: STATE MOVEMENTS ONLY, OR, LET US SAY, STATE REGIMES. THIS IS OUR POLICY. ANY OTHER ACTION RUNS COUNTER TO OUR POLICY.</p><p>[DAN] WHEN ISRAELI INVOLVEMENT IN DRUG TRAFFICKING IN COLOMBIA IS MENTIONED, DO YOU KNOW THE NUMBER OF ISRAELIS REFERRED TO? PERHAPS THE STATEMENT IS EXAGGERATED, AND THERE ARE NO MORE THAN ONE OR TWO, PERHAPS THREE ISRAELIS?</p><p>[NETANYAHU] THAT IS A GOOD POINT; REPORTS ARE SO OFTEN BLOWN OUT OF PROPORTION. WE SEEM TO HAVE SOME KIND OF REPUTATION WHICH OFTEN LEADS TO EXAGGERATED AND FANTASTIC -- I DO NOT WISH TO USE THE TERM ROMANTIC -- REPORTS IN THIS CONTEXT. IN ANY EVENT, THERE ARE MANY REPORTS, AND WE WOULD LIKE TO GET TO THE CORE OF TRUTH BEHIND THEM. AFTER THAT, WE WILL DECIDE WHAT ACTION WE CAN TAKE. WE MAY TAKE LEGAL STEPS, TAKE AWAY PEOPLE'S PASSPORTS, AND RESORT TO OTHER METHODS.</p><p>[FRIEDMAN] IN THE PAST, MR NETANYAHU, YOU BELONGED TO AN ARMY UNIT IN WHICH OUR FINEST YOUNG PEOPLE SERVED. HAVE YOU FOUND FORMER ARMY FRIENDS IN ANY OF THE MENTIONED NAMES?</p><p>[NETANYAHU] NO, AND I HOPE NEVER TO FIND ANY.</p><p>[DAN] DO YOU UNDERSTAND THE PHENOMENON?</p><p>[NETANYAHU] IF IT EXISTS!</p><p>[FRIEDMAN] YES, IF IT EXISTS. OUR ENTIRE CONVERSATION IS SUBJECT TO THIS PROVISO, BECAUSE WE HAVE NO SOLID GROUNDS FOR DISCUSSION.</p><p>[NETANYAHU] IF IT EXISTS, I THINK IT REFLECTS THE MORAL CORRUPTION OF A FEW INDIVIDUALS. THE STATE CANNOT BE RESPONSIBLE FOR WHAT EACH OF ITS NATIONALS DOES OUTSIDE THE COUNTRY. THESE PEOPLE MAY HAVE SUCCUMBED TO MERCENARY OR OTHER TEMPTATIONS. THE EXPRESSION OF SELLING ONE'S SOUL TO THE DEVIL IS APPROPRIATE IN THEIR CASE.</p><p>[FRIEDMAN] DEPUTY FOREIGN MINISTER BINYAMIN NETANYAHU, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.</p><p>[NETANYAHU] THANK YOU.</p></body></html>