<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0309"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0309"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0309</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0309 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE -- [SPEECH] [CRISTIANI] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] SECOND, THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S HEALTH. WE BELIEVE THAT IN THE VERY SHORT TERM, WE HAD TO SUPPLY ALL THE HEALTH FACILITIES AND HOSPITALS WITH AT LEAST THE MOST URGENTLY NEEDED MEDICINES FOR THE PEOPLE. WE HAVE ALLOTTED 17 MILLION COLONS FOR THE HEALTH MINISTRY FOR THE PURCHASE OF THE MOST URGENTLY NEEDED MEDICINES AND FOR THE DISTRIBUTION OF THIS MEDICINE THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY SO THAT THE POOR WILL RECEIVE THE EFFICIENT HEALTH SERVICES THAT THE GOVERNMENT MUST PROVIDE.</p><p>THE EDUCATION MINISTRY HAS BEEN ASKED TO GIVE STUDENTS THE MATERIALS THEY NEED TO PURSUE THEIR STUDIES. A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF MONEY HAS BEEN ALLOTTED FOR THE PURCHASE OF EQUIPMENT NEEDED BY THE SCHOOLS. WHEN THE 1990 SCHOOL YEAR BEGINS, WE MUST BE PREPARED TO PROVIDE THE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS WITH THE MATERIAL THEY NEED. WE ALSO BELIEVE THAT IT IS NECESSARY TO BEGIN, AS SOON AS POSSIBLE, REPAIRING THE STREETS AND ROADS. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE CAN SEE THAT THIS IS ALREADY BEING DONE.</p><p>FINALLY, LOW-INCOME HOUSING. NEXT WEEK THE PUBLIC WORKS MINISTER WILL ANNOUNCE THE LOW-INCOME HOUSING PLAN, AND HE WILL EXPLAIN HOW WE WILL HELP LOW-INCOME FAMILIES BUY HOMES. THIS WILL BE DONE THROUGH A SUBSIDY PLAN ENSURING THAT LOW-INCOME GROUPS WILL NOT BE AFFECTED BY STEEP PAYMENTS AND WILL HAVE MONEY LEFT OVER FOR FOOD AND OTHER BASIC NECESSITIES.</p><p>WE HAVE ALREADY DRAFTED A SOCIAL EMERGENCY PLAN. THIS PLAN WILL BE IMPLEMENTED IN SEPTEMBER, AND ITS FIRST PHASE WILL BE CARRIED OUT IN THE HIGHLY POPULATED URBAN AREAS. THE PLAN WILL BENEFIT APPROXIMATELY 200 COMMUNITIES AND, AS OF NOW, I ASK THE MAYORS FOR THEIR HELP, BECAUSE WE WANT TO WORK WITH THE MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENTS. THIS FIRST PHASE WILL BE AIMED AT PROVIDING LOW-INCOME COMMUNITIES WITH PUBLIC UTILITIES. WE WILL PROVIDE THEM WITH ELECTRICITY AND RUNNING WATER, WE WILL BUILD SEWER SYSTEMS, AND WE WILL HELP THEM IMPROVE THEIR HEALTH AND NUTRITION. AMID THE CRISIS WE ARE EXPERIENCING, WE BELIEVE THAT IT IS NECESSARY TO SUPPORT THE SMALL - SCALE BUSINESSMEN IN THESE COMMUNITIES. WE WILL ORGANIZE A LOAN SYSTEM FOR SMALL - SIZE BUSINESSES FOR DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THESE COMMUNITIES. I REPEAT: THIS SOCIAL EMERGENCY PLAN WILL BE IMPLEMENTED IN SEPTEMBER. IN THE NEXT FEW WEEKS, WE WILL BEGIN TO SEEK THE COOPERATION OF THOSE MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENTS THAT WILL BE INVOLVED IN THE PLAN.</p><p>THERE IS SOMETHING ELSE THAT WE MUST ALL STRUGGLE FOR, AND THAT IS TO ABOLISH UNEMPLOYMENT. WE MUST STRUGGLE SO THAT EVERY SALVADORAN WILL HAVE THE CHANCE TO EARN AN HONEST LIVING. WE THEREFORE WISH TO LAUNCH AN OFFENSIVE AGAINST UNEMPLOYMENT. WE ALSO BELIEVE THAT THE BEST WAY TO FIGHT VIOLENCE IS THROUGH EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES, SO THAT THE PEOPLE WILL NOT FIND THEMSELVES IN THE SITUATION WHERE THEY BELIEVE THAT THEY MUST COMMIT CRIMES TO SURVIVE OR THAT THEY MUST GET INVOLVED IN THE TYPE OF VIOLENCE SPONSORED BY THE FMLN TERRORISTS. THEREFORE, IN SEPTEMBER, WE WILL ALSO IMPLEMENT AN EMERGENCY PLAN TO GENERATE EMPLOYMENT. THIS PLAN HAS SOME SPECIFIC GOALS: FIRST, TO PROVIDE A BASIC JOB FOR THOSE PERSONS WHO ARE UNEMPLOYED OR UNDEREMPLOYED. OUR GOAL IS TO CREATE 20,000 JOBS PER MONTH FOR THESE PEOPLE. THIS PLAN WILL BE DRAFTED IN THE NEXT FEW WEEKS, AND WE WILL IMPLEMENT IT DURING THOSE MONTHS WHEN THERE IS USUALLY A DROP IN EMPLOYMENT. I MUST STRESS THAT WE ARE NOT GOING TO IMPLEMENT THE PLAN DURING THE SOWING AND HARVEST SEASONS, BECAUSE DURING THOSE SEASONS THERE IS AN OVERABUNDANCE OF JOBS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>