<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0561"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0561"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0561</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0561 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 10 OCT 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO TODAY ANNOUNCED THE APPOINTMENT OF ARIEL RIVERA IRIAS AS THE NEW FOREIGN MINISTER TO REPLACE MARIO PALENCIA. CEREZO ALSO APPOINTED NEW GOVERNMENT AND FINANCE MINISTERS, GENERAL CARLOS AUGUSTO MORALES AND FRANCISCO PINTO CASAROLA, RESPECTIVELY, TO REPLACE ROBERTO VALLE AND RODOLFO PAIZ.</p><p>MEANWHILE, GONZALO MENENDEZ DE LA RIVA, GUATEMALA'S HUMAN RIGHTS ATTORNEY GENERAL, TODAY PRESENTED HIS IRREVOCABLE RESIGNATION TO THE POST THAT HE HAD HELD SINCE 1987. MENENDEZ, WHO IS 82-YEARS-OLD, EXPLAINED THAT HE WAS RESIGNING BECAUSE, "I FEEL TIRED DUE TO MY ADVANCED AGE," AND ADDED THAT THIS WAS FOR "ABSOLUTELY PERSONAL" REASONS.</p><p>AT THE GOVERNMENT PALACE THE PRESIDENT EXPLAINED THAT THE CHANGES ARE PART OF A PROJECT AND ORGANIZATION OF HIS 500-DAY ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM.</p><p>VINICIO CEREZO ALSO ANNOUNCED THE APPOINTMENT OF HUMBERTO LAU AS PRESIDENT OF THE METROPOLITAN URBAN AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL. THIS POSITION HAD BEEN VACANT SINCE 1 AUGUST WHEN DANILO VARILLAS, CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC LEADER AND FORMER GUATEMALAN AMBASSADOR TO SPAIN, WAS SHOT TO DEATH.</p><p>ROBERTO VALLE, WHO WILL RETURN TO CONGRESS AS A DEPUTY, WAS CRITICIZED BY POLITICAL LEADERS AND SOCIAL SEGMENTS OF THE POPULATION FOR HIS INABILITY TO CURB VIOLENCE.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT POINTED OUT THAT PAIZ MIGHT BECOME A VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE IN NEXT YEAR'S GENERAL ELECTIONS.</p></body></html>