<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0647"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0647"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0647</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0647 (GE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 7 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [INTERVIEW WITH VENANCIO SALVATIERRA, WITH NOM DE GUERRE OF MARIO LOPEZ, A COMMANDER OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, FMLN, BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [SALVATIERRA] FROM THIS STANDPOINT, THE PROPOSAL BROUGHT BY THE CHRISTIANI GOVERNMENT DELEGATION TO SAN JOSE SOUGHT TO GAIN TIME WHILE KEEPING THE IMAGE THAT THE GOVERNMENT WAS ENGAGED IN A DIALOGUE. HOWEVER, THE GOVERNMENT WAS NOT REALLY SEEKING THE PATH TOWARD A NEGOTIATION. ON THE CONTRARY, IT SOUGHT TO CONDUCT UNDER THE SHADOW OF THE DIALOGUE ACTIONS THAT WILL GIVE IT AN ADVANTAGE OVER THE FMLN, INCLUDING TERRORIST ATTACKS LIKE THIS ONE. THE OPERATION AGAINST THE FENASTRAS LEADERSHIP IS PART OF THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT POLICY, AND SO IS THE WAVE OF REPRESSION AGAINST THE MASS MOVEMENT FROM THE ONSET OF THIS GOVERNMENT.</p><p>THE PROPOSAL SUBMITTED IN COSTA RICA INCLUDED MASS GROUPS AS PART OF THE ENEMY. ALL THESE THINGS ARE PART OF THE GOVERNMENT POLICY. WE CANNOT ALLOW THE GOVERNMENT TO HIDE THIS POLICY BEHIND THE DIALOGUE, AS THIS POLICY ALLOWS ACTIONS LIKE THE ONE AT FENASTRAS TO GO UNPUNISHED AND DO NOT LEAD TO A TRUE SOLUTION OF THE CONFLICT. THAT IS WHY THE FMLN SUSPENDED ITS PARTICIPATION IN CARACAS, BUT HAS NOT SUSPENDED ITS PARTICIPATION IN THE DIALOGUE. IN FACT, THE FMLN HAS UNDERTAKEN BIDS TO CONDUCT A MEDIATION SO THAT THE ADEQUATE CONDITIONS FOR A DIALOGUE ARE CREATED AND ACTIONS LIKE THE ONE IN FENASTRAS DO NOT CONTINUE. DEEP DOWN, WE FEEL THAT IN ORDER FOR THE DIALOGUE TO TURN INTO A NEGOTIATION THAT WILL END THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT...[CHANGES THOUGHT] THE PROGRESS OF THE MASS MOVEMENT IN EL SALVADOR WITH ALL THE EXISTING FORMS OF STRUGGLE IS WHAT WILL COMPEL THE OTHER SIDE TO REALLY SIT DOWN AT THE NEGOTIATIONS TABLE.</p><p>SO LONG AS THE OTHER SIDE FEELS THAT IT CAN DEFEAT THE PEOPLE, IT WILL NOT BE TRULY COMMITTED TO NEGOTIATING AN END TO THE CONFLICT. WHEN IT SEES THAT THE PEOPLE WILL DEFEAT IT, AND THAT IT IS FORCED TO NEGOTIATE, THEN A NEGOTIATION WILL TRULY TAKE PLACE IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>[REPORTER] COMMANDER MARIO LOPEZ, THE LATEST DEVELOPMENTS, EVEN FOLLOWING THE FENASTRAS ATTACK, INDICATE THAT GOVERNMENT POLICY DOES NOT SEEM TO CHANGE REGARDING THE HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS AND THREATS TO THE MASS MOVEMENT. IN FACT, THE LUTHERAN CHURCH, OR RATHER ITS PASTOR LEARDO GOMEZ, HAS RECEIVED DEATH THREATS. DO YOU THINK AN INTERNAL PURGE IN THE ARMED FORCES IS POSSIBLE? DO YOU THINK THAT WITH THAT INTERNAL PURGE IT CAN BE POSSIBLE TO STOP THE EXTREME HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS IN THE COUNTRY?</p><p>[SALVATIERRA] THE FMLN HAS PROPOSED AN INTERNAL PURGE IN THE ARMED FORCES AS AN IMPORTANT FACTOR IN THE PROCESS OF DIALOGUE OR NEGOTIATIONS, MEANING THAT THE ARMED FORCES THEMSELVES MUST GET RID OF THE CORRUPT AND CRIMINAL ELEMENTS. HOWEVER, THE CRUX OF THE MATTER IS THE NEED TO PURGE THE ARMED FORCES. THE FMLN HAS TOLD THEM: PURGE YOURSELVES. HOWEVER, THAT IS PRACTICALLY IMPOSSIBLE. ON ONE SIDE, THE NEED TO HAVE A TRUE PURGE IN THE ARMED FORCES BECOMES APPARENT, BECAUSE OTHERWISE WE CANNOT MAKE PROGRESS AND HAVE TRUE DEMOCRACY IN OUR COUNTRY. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ARE PROVING THE FMLN IS RIGHT. ON THE OTHER SIDE, IT IS CLEAR THAT THE CRIMINAL ELEMENTS CONTROL THE MILITARY POWER AND HAVE INFLUENCE OVER THE COUNTRY'S POLITICAL POWER.</p><p>THE PRESENCE OF LA TANDONA [REFERENCE TO 1966 GRADUATES OF THE CAPTAIN GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY SCHOOL] IN FRONT OF THE TELEVISION CAMERAS, FOLLOWING THE DIALOGUE SESSION IN COSTA RICA, WAS MEANT TO TELL THE PEOPLE: WE RULE AND CAN DO AS WE PLEASE. THEN THE ATTACKS CAME. I FEEL THAT THE NEED TO END THAT SITUATION IS EVIDENT TO ALL, AS WELL AS HOW RIGHT THE FMLN STAND IS. I NOW WANT TO REITERATE THAT WE CANNOT ACHIEVE THAT GOAL UNLESS WE FORCE THE ARMED FORCES AND THE GOVERNMENT TO CARRY OUT THAT PURGE. BY FORCING THEM, I MEAN THAT THE PEOPLE'S FORCE MUST TELL THEM TO DO THAT IF THEY WANT TO SURVIVE. THE DEMAND THAT COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE [CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF] LEAVE, AS HE IS ONE OF THE CHIEF CULPRITS OF THE ABOVE-MENTIONED POLICY, WILL GROW STRONGER. THE PEOPLE MUST PRESS AND ARE PRESSING THIS DEMAND.</p></body></html>