<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1118"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1118"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1118</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1118 (UNISYS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 FEB 90 (EL MUNDO) -- [TEXT] TERRORIST ACTIONS AGAINST SAN SALVADOR'S COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS CONTINUE, CREATING ALARM AND CONCERN AMONG PRIVATE ENTERPRISE GROUPS. COPREFA [ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE] REPORTS TODAY THAT AT 0620 FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] URBAN CELLS PLACED DYNAMITE STICKS IN FOUR COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS IN MID-TOWN SAN SALVADOR; NAMELY, A BANK, A HOTEL, A CAR DEALERSHIP, AND A STORE.</p><p>THE REPORT ADDS THAT THE BANCO CUSCATLAN, LOCATED ON 6TH WEST STREET AND CUSCATLAN AVENUE; THE RITZ HOTEL, LOCATED ON 7TH SOUTH AVENUE AND RUBEN DARIO STREET; THE NASA CAR DEALERSHIP, LOCATED BETWEEN 25TH NORTH AVENUE AND 3D WEST STREET; AND THE MIKE-MIKE STORE, LOCATED ON PASAJE MONTALVO AND 1ST NORTH AVENUE, SUFFERED PARTIAL DAMAGE. THERE WERE NO VICTIMS.</p><p>COPREFA ALSO REPORTS THAT 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE SOLDIERS DISCOVERED THE BODIES OF FIVE GUERRILLAS INSIDE A CACHE DURING A COMBING OPERATION CONDUCTED ON SATURDAY, 10 FEBRUARY. IT WAS ESTABLISHED THE FIVE MEN HAD BEEN LEFT BEHIND AFTER THE SO-CALLED "OFFENSIVE TO THE TOP," AND PERISHED WHEN THEIR OTHER COMRADES LEFT THEM "COVERING THE WITHDRAWAL."</p><p>NINE EXTREMISTS WERE KILLED THE PAST WEEKEND DURING FIGHTING WITH MILITARY DETACHMENT NO. 4 IN THE CORINTO AREA, MORAZAN DEPARTMENT. IT IS SAID THE FMLN GUERRILLAS WERE TAKEN BY SURPRISE WHEN THEY TRIED TO ENTER THE TOWN. TWO SOLDIERS DIED IN THE FIGHTING. COPREFA REPORTS THAT THE SALVADORAN AIR FORCE PROVIDED SUPPORT. IN ADDITION, THE COMMAND OF EL PARAISO'S 5TH BRIGADE, IN CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT, REPORTS THE DEATH OF ONE OF ITS SOLDIERS DURING FIGHTING WITH SUBVERSIVE GROUPS IN THE VILLAGE OF EL ZUNGARO, IN CHALATENANGO, ON SATURDAY. IN ADDITION, THE ATONAL BATTALION STATES THAT ONE OF ITS SOLDIERS WAS KILLED IN COMBAT WITH REBELS IN THE AREA AROUND AVALOS FARM IN SANTA ELENA, USULUTAN DEPARTMENT.</p><p>THIRD INFANTRY BRIGADE TROOPS REPORT SEIZING 22 AR-15 RIFLES, EIGHT M-16 RIFLES, AND FOUR FAL RIFLES, AS WELL AS TWO SOVIET-MADE AK-47 RIFLES. IN ADDITION, 17 STEYR BRAND SUBMACHINE GUNS, ONE RPG-18 GRENADE LAUNCHER, THREE SOVIET-MADE PISTOLS, 3,800 CARTRIDGES OF DIFFERENT CALIBERS, 94 CARTRIDGE CLIPS, SEVERAL TNT STICKS, 75 POUNDS OF ALUMINUM POWDER, AND A LARGE QUANTITY OF MATERIAL TO MAKE EXPLOSIVES WERE CONFISCATED. THE ARSENAL WAS FOUND IN A CACHE IN LA ESCONDIDA JURISDICTION, SAN MIGUEL DEPARTMENT, BY TROOPS OF THE 3D BRIGADE, LEON BATTALION. THIS UNIT REPORTS A CLASH WITH THE EXTREMISTS ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF SAN MIGUEL, DURING WHICH WAR MATERIEL WAS SEIZED.</p></body></html>