<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0821"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0821"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0821</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0821 (PRC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 20 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] THE ARMED FORCES MAINTAIN CONTROL IN THE CAPITAL. AFTER 6 [NUMBER AS HEARD] DAYS OF INTENSE BATTLES BETWEEN THE ARMY AND THE TERRORIST CRIMINALS OF THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT], THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES HAVE SHOWN THEIR PROFESSIONALISM BY ACHIEVING TOTAL CONTROL IN THE CAPITAL. THE LOCATIONS WHERE THERE WERE THE BIGGEST PROBLEMS -- THE SLOPES OF SAN JACINTO HILL IN THE SOUTH AND SOYAPANGO, CIUDAD DELGADO, MEJICANOS, AND ZACAMIL -- HAVE BEEN RETAKEN BY THE ARMY DURING THE WEEKEND. EVEN THOUGH THE ARMY HAD DISLODGED THE MARXIST - LENINISTS FROM MEJICANOS, CIVILIAN ACCESS TO THAT AREA HAS NOT BEEN PERMITTED BECAUSE THE GUERRILLAS MINED THE ENTRANCES TO SEVERAL NEIGHBORHOODS AND SEVERAL HOUSES OF PEOPLE WHO DID NOT COOPERATE WITH THEM. IN CIUDAD DELGADO, ARMED FORCES SOLDIERS FOUGHT SMALL GROUPS OF GUERRILLAS WHO HAD HIDDEN IN HOUSES AND WHO PUT UP SOME RESISTANCE, WHICH WAS QUICKLY CONTROLLED BY THE ARMED FORCES. THE ARMED FORCES MAINTAIN ABSOLUTE CONTROL OVER AMATEPEC AND CIUDAD CREDISA NEIGHBORHOODS.</p><p>ONWARD BRAVE SOLDIERS. CONTINUE FIGHTING TO KEEP OUR FATHERLAND FREE WITH GUARANTEES FOR ALL HONEST SALVADORANS.</p></body></html>