<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0635"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0635"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0635</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0635 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 2 NOV 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] THE GUERRILLAS' ANNOUNCEMENT TODAY THAT THEY DECIDED TO SUSPEND THEIR DIALOGUE WITH THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT CAUSED GREAT SURPRISE AMONG VARIOUS CIRCLES IN THE COUNTRY THAT VOWED TO MAKE NEW EFFORTS TO REESTABLISH THEM.</p><p>THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) SUSPENDED ITS DIALOGUE WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI TO PROTEST A DYNAMITE ATTACK ON THE HEADQUARTERS OF A LABOR UNION ON 31 OCTOBER THAT LEFT 10 DEAD AND 30 INJURED.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE GUERRILLAS, THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DYNAMITE ATTACK ON THE SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION (FENASTRAS).</p><p>THE FMLN, IN A COMMUNIQUE SIGNED BY ITS TOP FIVE LEADERS, STATED THAT "WE MUST NOT ALLOW OUR PRESENCE IN THE DIALOGUE TO BE USED TO COVER UP THE GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR THAT MASSACRE."</p><p>IT ALSO DEMANDED THAT THE OAS, UNITED NATIONS, AND THE CHURCH OFFER GUARANTEES TO EL SALVADOR'S OPPOSITION GROUPS.</p><p>REVEREND EDGAR PALACIOS, COORDINATOR OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE FOR THE NATIONAL DIALOGUE (CPDN), WHICH IS MADE UP OF OVER 60 SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS, TOLD ACAN-EFE THAT "WE REGRET THIS KIND OF DECISION VERY MUCH, BUT WE WILL IMMEDIATELY CONTACT THE GUERRILLAS TO TRY TO RESUME THE DIALOGUE."</p><p>PALACIOS ADDED THAT "IF THE DOOR OF DIALOGUE AND NEGOTIATION IS CLOSED, THE DOOR OF WAR WILL OPEN."</p><p>EDUARDO COLINDRES, LEADER OF THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY, THE MAIN OPPOSITION PARTY, SAID THAT THE DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE GUERRILLAS "MUST CONTINUE."</p><p>"THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RIGHTIST NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA) MUST INVESTIGATE AND PUNISH THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CRIME COMMITTED AGAINST FENASTRAS; HOWEVER, THE DIALOGUE MUST NOT BE SUSPENDED," COLINDRES ADDED.</p><p>JUAN JOSE MARTEL, LEADER OF THE SOCIAL CHRISTIAN PEOPLE'S MOVEMENT (MPSC), WHICH IS A MEMBER OF THE LEFTIST DEMOCRATIC CONVERGENCE, EXPRESSED SURPRISE OVER THE GUERRILLAS' DECISION.</p><p>MARTEL SAID THAT RIGHT-WING SALVADORAN GROUPS ARE TRYING TO ELIMINATE THE DIALOGUE PROCESS, WHICH SEEKS TO END THE WAR THROUGH NEGOTIATED POLITICAL MEANS.</p><p>SO FAR, NO GOVERNMENT SPOKESMAN HAS REACTED TO THE FMLN'S DECISION TO SUSPEND THE DIALOGUE THAT BEGAN IN MID-SEPTEMBER AND WOULD HAVE CONTINUED ON 20 AND 21 NOVEMBER IN CARACAS, VENEZUELA.</p><p>PALACIOS, ALONG WITH OTHER RELIGIOUS, POLITICAL, AND LABOR LEADERS, HEADED A MARCH TO ACCOMPANY THE BODIES OF 10 WORKERS WHO WERE KILLED DURING THE DYNAMITE ATTACK ON THE FENASTRAS HEADQUARTERS IN DOWNTOWN SAN SALVADOR, ONLY 200 METERS FROM A NATIONAL POLICE GARRISON.</p><p>THE UNION MEMBERS' BODIES, INCLUDING THAT OF FENASTRAS LEADER FEBE ELIZABETH VELASQUEZ, WERE ACCOMPANIED BY SEVERAL THOUSAND WORKERS WHO SHOUTED ANTIGOVERNMENT SLOGANS AND CARRIED RED FLOWERS.</p><p>TENSION WAS HIGH DURING THE MARCH, MAINLY BECAUSE OF THE HEAVY MILITARY PRESENCE IN SAN SALVADOR'S MAIN STREETS AND BECAUSE THE UNION MEMBERS DETAINED AT LEAST 30 PLAINCLOTHES POLICEMEN WHO, ACCORDING TO THE UNIONISTS, INFILTRATED THE DEMONSTRATION.</p><p>THE MARCH ENDED AT THE GENERAL CEMETERY WHERE THE BODIES OF THE UNION MEMBERS WERE BURIED.</p></body></html>