<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0373"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0373"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0373</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0373 (BBN)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 24 AUG 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] WELL-KNOWN BANKER RAMIRO CASTILLO LOVE WAS MURDERED TODAY BY A GROUP OF UNIDENTIFIED PERSONS WHO RIDDLED HIM WITH MACHINEGUN FIRE AS HE WAS LEAVING HIS RESIDENCE IN AN ELEGANT SUBURB IN THE SOUTHERN PART OF THIS CITY.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE POLICE, APPROXIMATELY SIX UNIDENTIFIED PERSONS BEARING ARMS WENT TO HIS RESIDENCE THIS MORNING WITH THE INTENTION OF ROBBING OR KIDNAPPING CASTILLO. CASTILLO RESISTED, HOWEVER, AND WAS SHOT TO DEATH. THE ATTACKERS ALSO WOUNDED CASTILLO'S SON.</p><p>AFTER MURDERING CASTILLO THE ATTACKERS JUMPED INTO ONE OF CASTILLO'S VEHICLES AND FLED.</p><p>CASTILLO WAS THE PRESIDENT OF THE BANCO INDUSTRIAL, THE LARGEST PRIVATE BANK IN GUATEMALA.</p><p>IT WAS ALSO REPORTED TODAY THAT UNIDENTIFIED PERSONS KIDNAPPED A YOUNG COUPLE, SILVIA AZURDIA AND VICTOR RODRIGUEZ, AS THEY WERE LEAVING THEIR HOME IN GUATEMALA CITY. BOTH AZURDIA AND RODRIGUEZ ARE UNIVERSITY STUDENTS.</p><p>AZURDIA IS THE DAUGHTER OF FREDDY AZURDIA, THE DIRECTOR OF A LOCAL RADIO NEWS PROGRAM CALLED "COMANDO INFORMATIVO."</p></body></html>