<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0989"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0989"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0989</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0989 (SRI)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 15 DEC 89 (TELEVISION NACIONAL DE CHILE NETWORK) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [TEXT] GOOD EVENING. THE GOVERNMENT HAS ANNOUNCED A MAJOR PORTION OF THE RESULTS OF THE ELECTIONS HELD TODAY. AFTER 93 PERCENT OF THE VOTING STATIONS HAVE BEEN COUNTED, AND WHEN ALL THAT IS NEEDED IS THE OFFICIAL REPORT OF THE ELECTORAL COURT, IT IS POSSIBLE TO SAY THAT PATRICIO AYLWIN AZOCAR HAS BEEN ELECTED PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC FOR THE L990-L994 TERM.</p><p>WITH REGARD TO THAT RESULT THE SUPREME GOVERNMENT WOULD LIKE TO CONVEY TO THE PEOPLE THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>1. ALL CHILEANS SHOULD BE PROUD FOR ONCE AGAIN PARTICIPATING IN AN EXEMPLARY ELECTION.</p><p>2. ON BEHALF OF THE SUPREME GOVERNMENT, I WOULD LIKE TO CONVEY A DESERVED RECOGNITION TO THE ARMED FORCES AND CARABINEROS, WHO HAVE LED AN ELECTORAL PROCESS IN ORDER AND TRANQUILITY, AND TO ALL THE PEOPLE WHO PARTICIPATED TODAY AT THE VOTING STATIONS. THEY ENABLED THIS ELECTION TO BE HELD IN AN ENVIRONMENT OF PEACE, AND THEREBY ALLOWED THE FREE EXPRESSION OF CIVIC WILL. WE MUST, HOWEVER, REPUDIATE THE VIOLENT MURDER OF A MEMBER OF CARABINEROS.</p><p>3. THE PEOPLE MUST REST ASSURED THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT PINOCHET, FAITHFUL TO THE COMMITMENT MADE WITH THE ARMED FORCES AND POLICE, WILL HAVE THE RESULTS OF THE RECENT ELECTIONS RESPECTED. THE GOVERNMENT CALLS ON THE ENTIRE COUNTRY TO MAINTAIN PUBLIC ORDER, AND TO WAIT WITH TRANQUILITY THE FINAL RESULTS OF THIS ELECTION.</p><p>4. DURING THE LAST 16 YEARS CHILE HAS MOVED AHEAD SYSTEMATICALLY AND WITHOUT HESITATION TOWARD THE GREAT OBJECTIVES SET FORTH AT THE BEGINNING OF THE MILITARY GOVERNMENT. THE GOVERNMENT IS FULLY SATISFIED WITH THE WORK OF DEMOCRATIC, ECONOMIC, AND SOCIAL RECONSTRUCTION THAT WAS CARRIED OUT BY ALL CHILEANS UNDER THE LEADERSHIP OF PRESIDENT PINOCHET. WE HAVE SET FORTH A SOLID BASIS FOR FUTURE PROSPERITY.</p><p>5. THIS ELECTION FULFILLED ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT REQUIREMENTS FOR REACHING THE FULL DEMOCRACY THAT WAS DESTROYED IN THE PAST BY THE ENEMIES OF FREEDOM AND PLURALISM. AS HIS EXCELLENCY PRESIDENT PINOCHET SAID, 11 SEPTEMBER L973 NOT ONLY REPRESENTED THE OVERTHROW OF AN ILLEGIMATE AND FAILED GOVERNMENT, BUT IT ALSO REPRESENTED THE END OF A WORN OUT POLITICAL AND INSTITUTIONAL REGIME, AND THE NEED TO BUILD A NEW ONE. IT WAS NOT JUST A TASK OF SIMPLE RESTORATION, BUT PRIMARILY A CREATIVE TASK WHICH, IN ORDER TO SUCCEED, HAD TO BE CARRIED OUT IN THE DEEP ROOTS OF NATIONAL TRADITION.</p><p>6. THE ARMED FORCES AND CARABINEROS FULFILLED THE COMMITMENT MADE IN SEPTEMBER L973. THE MISSION HAS BEEN FULFILLED. AUTHENTIC DEMOCRACY AS A WAY OF LIFE AND A FORM OF GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN CREATED, AND THE TRANSITION PROCESS ENDS ON 11 MARCH L990. FROM NOW ON IT WILL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF EVERY CHILEAN TO KEEP WATCH SO THAT THE STABILITY AND PROGRESS ACHIEVED WITH POLITICAL WILL AND CONSTANT EFFORT WILL CONTINUE TO PREVAIL IN OUR FREE SOCIETY. THANK YOU VERY MUCH. GOOD NIGHT.</p></body></html>