<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1214"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1214"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1214</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1214 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 6 APR 90 (DPA) -- [TEXT] THE CRIMINAL DRUG MAFIAS OPERATING IN COLOMBIA ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT THEY WILL INCREASE THEIR TERRORIST ATTACKS ON "THE INDUSTRIAL AND POLITICAL OLIGARCHY" IN RESPONSE TO THE ALLEGED DISAPPEARANCE OF SEVERAL OF THEIR ACCOMPLICES.</p><p>IN A COMMUNIQUE SENT BY TELEFAX TO SEVERAL NEWS MEDIA, "THE EXTRADITABLES," SPOKESMEN FOR THE MAFIAS, SAID THAT THEIR "WAR" WILL BE CARRIED OUT HENCEFORTH BECAUSE OF THE "DISAPPEARANCE, TORTURE, AND ASSASSINATION" OF SEVERAL DRUG TRAFFICKERS AT THE HANDS OF THE DIRECTORATE OF JUDICIAL POLICE AND INVESTIGATIONS (DIJIN).</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE CRIMINALS, WHO AGAIN DESCRIBED THEMSELVES AS A "POLITICAL-MILITARY" ORGANIZATION, "THE PROBLEM OF THE EXTRADITION HAS BEEN RELEGATED TO A SECONDARY STATUS, SINCE OUR MAIN MOTIVE FOR THE WAR WILL BE THE TORTURE, ASSASSINATION, AND DISAPPEARANCE OF OUR COMRADES."</p><p>A FEW DAYS AGO, IN A SIMILAR MESSAGE, THE CRIMINALS SAID THAT THEY WOULD PLACE 5-TON DYNAMITE BOMBS IN "NEIGHBORHOODS OF THE BOGOTA OLIGARCHY," IN REPRISAL FOR OFFENSIVE ACTIONS BY THE AUTHORITIES.</p><p>YESTERDAY, A CAR-BOMB WITH 800 KG OF DYNAMITE WAS LEFT BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS IN AN EXCLUSIVE SECTOR OF THE CAPITAL. HAD IT NOT BEEN FOR A DEFECT IN THE DETONATOR, IT WOULD HAVE KILLED AT LEAST 5,000 [NUMBER AS RECEIVED] PEOPLE.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE CRIMINALS, THE RESURGENCE OF TERRORIST ATTACKS IS DUE TO THE "DISAPPEARANCE" LATE LAST MONTH OF JOSE RETAVISTA GARZON, FREDDY LOPEZ OSPINA, AND BROTHERS OMAR AND GUILLERMO PEREA RIVERA, WHO REPORTEDLY WERE ARRESTED BY THE POLICE IN THE NORTHWESTERN TOWN OF ENVIGADO.</p><p>HOWEVER, ACCORDING TO AN INVESTIGATION CARRIED OUT YESTERDAY BY THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, THESE PERSONS ARE NOT CONFINED IN ANY GARRISON OF THE ELITE FORCE, A POLICE ANTITERRORIST CORPS.</p><p>"THE EXTRADITABLES" NOTED THAT "THE GOOD FAITH OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE IN NO WAY SATISFIES OUR DEMANDS, BECAUSE THE MISSING COMPANIONS WERE TAKEN OUT OF THE SCHOOL (POLICE HEADQUARTERS) AND EXECUTED BY ORDER OF DIJIN DIRECTOR OSCAR PELAEZ CARMONA, WHOM THEY ACCUSE OF "MASTERMINDING" SEVERAL MASSACRES.</p><p>THE DRUG TRAFFICKING MAFIA ALSO SAID THAT THE KILLINGS OF POLICEMEN HAD BEEN SUSPENDED (14 UNIFORMED POLICEMEN HAVE BEEN KILLED IN MEDELLIN SINCE LAST MONDAY) AND THAT THEY HAD NEVER PARTICIPATED IN "TORTURE," BUT, THEY ADDED, "WE WILL INTENSIFY OUR STRUGGLE AGAINST THE INDUSTRIAL AND POLITICAL OLIGARCHY, WHICH IS AN ACCOMPLICE TO THE ASSASSINATIONS."</p><p>THE WAR AGAINST THE DRUG MAFIAS IN COLOMBIA, WHICH APPEARS TO HAVE EXPERIENCED A VIOLENT RESURGENCE, BEGAN LAST AUGUST AFTER MERCENARIES AT THE SERVICE OF THE CRIMINAL GROUPS ASSASSINATED IN THE SPACE OF A FEW HOURS A MAGISTRATE, A POLICE COLONEL, AND PRESIDENTIAL HOPEFUL LUIS CARLOS GALAN.</p></body></html>