<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1297"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1297"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1297</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1297 (BOEING)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 21 MAY 90 (EFE) -- [ARTICLE] [NELSON SANDOVAL] [TEXT] CHILEAN PRESIDENT PATRICIO AYLWIN WILL TODAY REPORT ON THE FIRST 70 DAYS OF HIS ADMINISTRATION AND WILL MAKE IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENTS CONCERNING HIS FUTURE PLANS IN A SPEECH TO A PLENARY MEETING OF THE CHILEAN CONGRESS THAT WILL MARK THE BEGINNING OF SPECIAL CONGRESSIONAL SESSIONS.</p><p>AYLWIN'S SPEECH AWAKENS CONSIDERABLE EXPECTATION BECAUSE OF RECENT UNPUBLICIZED CLASHES BETWEEN AYLWIN'S ADMINISTRATION AND GENERAL AUGUST PINOCHET, WHO HAS BEEN THROWING HIS WEIGHT AROUND AS COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF THE ARMY, AND ALSO BECAUSE OF THE GROWING RIGHTWING OPPOSITION TO THE ACTIONS OF THE DEMOCRATIC ADMINISTRATION.</p><p>POLITICAL ANALYSTS HAVE POINTED OUT THAT THE PRESIDENTIAL SPEECH WILL COINCIDE WITH THE "END OF A GOVERNMENT-OPPOSITION HONEYMOON" THAT HAD MARKED THE INITIAL WEEKS OF THE NEW ADMINISTRATION.</p><p>THE ADMINISTRATION'S INITIATIVES REGARDING HUMAN RIGHTS, TAX REFORM, THE DEMOCRATIZATION OF LOCAL GOVERNMENTS, AND OTHER STEPS AIMED AT DEPRIVING MILITARY COURTS OF THEIR POWERS HAVE WORSENED THE CONFLICT AND HAVE MADE THINGS MORE DIFFICULT FOR AYLWIN'S ADMINISTRATION.</p><p>THIS IS HAPPENING BECAUSE, WHILE THE RIGHTWING PARTIES ARE LEANING MORE AND MORE TOWARD PINOCHET EVERY DAY AND LONGING FOR HIS AUTHORITARIAN REGIME, THE LEFTWING PARTIES AND EVEN SECTORS OF THE COALITION OF PARTIES FOR DEMOCRACY HAVE BEEN CRITICIZING AYLWIN FOR ALLEGED "LUKEWARM" APPROACH TO THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DEMOCRATIC CHANGES THAT HE PROMISED DURING HIS ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN.</p><p>THE RIGHTWING HAS TAKEN DUE ADVANTAGE OF SEVERAL UNSOLVED TERRORIST ATTACKS OVER THE RECENT WEEKS TO PROP UP ITS OPPOSITION IN CONGRESS TO BILLS RELATED TO HUMAN RIGHTS.</p><p>HOWEVER, ACCORDING TO RECENT OPINION POLLS, AYLWIN WILL MAKE HIS SPEECH AMID GROWING POPULARITY, MUCH HIGHER THAN THE SUPPORT HE OBTAINED AT THE 14 DECEMBER ELECTIONS.</p><p>THE PRESIDENTIAL SPEECH TO CONGRESS AT THE LEGISLATIVE PALACE IN VALPARAISO, 125 KM WEST OF SANTIAGO, WILL MARK THE RETURN TO A LONG-STANDING DEMOCRATIC TRADITION THAT CHILEANS USED TO ENJOY EVERY 21 MAY.</p><p>ON THIS DAY, THE REPORT TO CONGRESS WAS YET ANOTHER REASON FOR POPULAR REJOICING BECAUSE IT COINCIDED WITH THE "NAVAL GLORIES DAY" WHICH IS ALSO COMMEMORATED ON 21 MAY IN MEMORY OF THE CHILE'S TOP NAVAL HERO ARTURO PRAT WHO DIED IN THE NAVAL BATTLE OF IQUIQUE DURING THE 1879 PACIFIC WAR.</p><p>SINCE CONGRESS WAS CLOSED DOWN DURING THE MILITARY REGIME, GENERAL AUGUSTO PINOCHET USED TO READ HIS STATE OF THE NATION ADDRESS ON 11 SEPTEMBER, THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE MILITARY COUP D'ETAT THROUGH WHICH HE SEIZED POWER.</p><p>ACCORDING TO POLITICAL ANALYSTS, AYLWIN'S SPEECH MAY PROVIDE THE KEY TO THE LAYOUT OF CHILE'S TRANSITION IN THE FUTURE. THE MANNER IN WHICH THE PRESIDENT WILL MAKE HIS REPORT IS RATHER CURIOUS BECAUSE THEORETICALLY THIS REPORT SHOULD ENCOMPASS ONE YEAR OF GOVERNMENT, WHILE AYLWIN HAS BEEN PRESIDENT FOR ONLY 70 DAYS DURING WHICH THE ADMINISTRATION HAS BEEN HARSHLY CRITICIZED BY THE RIGHTWING EVERY TIME THE ADMINISTRATION HAD SOMETHING BAD TO SAY ABOUT THE PRIOR MILITARY REGIME.</p><p>GENERAL PINOCHET PERSONALLY TOLD AYLWIN THAT HE FELT OFFENDED BY AYLWIN'S LABOR DAY CELEBRATION SPEECH ON 1 MAY.</p><p>DURING HIS LATEST PRIVATE MEETING WITH THE PRESIDENT, PINOCHET TOLD AYLWIN THAT HE FELT THAT THE "TRUTH AND RECONCILIATION" COMMISSION THAT AYLWIN HAD CREATED TO INVESTIGATE HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS DURING THE MILITARY REGIME WAS A DIRECT ATTACK ON THE ARMY.</p><p>PINOCHET ALSO TOLD AYLWIN THAT BY WAY OF "PROTEST" AGAINST THESE ACTIONS HE WOULD NOT ATTEND THE LUNCHEON TO WHICH THE PRESIDENT HAD INVITED ALL THE COMMANDERS OF THE ARMED FORCES BRANCHES.</p><p>ACCORDING TO LEAKS ABOUT THIS MEETING, AYLWIN TOLD PINOCHET: "WATCH YOUR STEP, GENERAL" AND REMINDED HIM THAT OFFENSIVE BEHAVIOR AGAINST THE PRESIDENT COULD HARM PINOCHET'S IMAGE EVEN WITHIN HIS OWN INSTITUTION, THE ARMY.</p><p>PINOCHET DID NOT ATTEND THE LUNCHEON, HOWEVER, SENDING INSTEAD GENERAL HUGO SALAS, THE THIRD HIGHEST-RANKING ARMY OFFICER AND THE FORMER CHIEF OF THE CNI [NATIONAL INFORMATION CENTER], THE SECRET POLICE OF HIS REGIME.</p><p>PINOCHET FAILED IN HIS ATTEMPT TO CONVOKE THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL AND TO MAKE THIS COUNCIL ISSUE A STATEMENT AGAINST THE "TRUTH AND RECONCILIATION" COMMISSION, BUT PINOCHET'S SORTIE IN THE POLITICAL ARENA AWOKE CONCERN LACED WITH FEAR, AS ONE GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL ADMITTED TO EFE. THE SOURCE, WHO ASKED TO REMAIN ANONYMOUS, ADDED THAT "PINOCHET IS AWARE OF THE FEAR HE AWAKENS AND HE USES IT ADROITLY."</p><p>THE FORMER PRESIDENT WILL NOT ATTEND THE TODAY'S CEREMONY IN CONGRESS ALTHOUGH THE COMMANDERS OF THE OTHER ARMED FORCES BRANCHES, THE VERY SAME ONES THAT DID NOT SUPPORT HIS ATTEMPT TO CONVOKE THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL, WILL BE PRESENT.</p><p>PINOCHET CLAIMED THAT HE HAS "INSTITUTIONAL REASONS" FOR HIS ABSENCE AND HAS LEFT FOR NORTHERN CHILE WHERE HE IS CURRENTLY TOURING ARMY GARRISONS.</p><p>ANALYSTS BELIEVE THAT THE "PINOCHET EFFECT" WILL BE NOTICEABLE IN AYLWIN'S SPEECH THROUGH GREATER MODERATION IN ANNOUNCEMENTS OF NEW INSTITUTIONAL CHANGES AND THROUGH MORE BENIGN ASSESSMENTS OF THE PREVIOUS MILITARY REGIME.</p></body></html>