<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1183"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1183"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="PANAMA CITY (PANAMA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1183</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1183 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>PANAMA CITY (PANAMA), 22 MAR 90 (DPA) -- [TEXT] PANAMANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER JULIO LINARES ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAD GRANTED SAFE-CONDUCTS TO FIVE FORMER OFFICIALS OF THE DEPOSED REGIME, HEADED BY GENERAL MANUAL ANTONIO NORIEGA. THE FIVE FORMER GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS ARE PRESENTLY AT THE ECUADORAN EMBASSY.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE ANNOUNCEMENT, FORMER PUBLIC WORKS MINISTER RENE BULTRON, FORMER LABOR MINISTER CESAR MARTANS, FORMER MORTGAGE BANK MANAGER JULIO SHAIK, FORMER TOURISM INSTITUTE DIRECTOR BERNARDO DOMINGUEZ, AND FORMER HYRAULIC RESOURCES AND ELECTRIFICATION INSTITUTE DIRECTOR OVIGILDO HERRERA, ARE THE FORMER OFFICIALS WHO WILL BE ABLE TO TRAVEL TO ECUADOR WITHIN THE NEXT FEW DAYS.</p><p>LINARES ADDED THAT THE DECISION TO GRANT A SAFE-CONDUCT TO FORMER DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTIONARY PARTY LEGISLATOR LUIS "LUCHO" GOMEZ -- PRESENTLY AT THE CUBAN EMBASSY -- HAS BEEN REVOKED BECAUSE HE FACES CHARGES OF "KIDNAPPING AND PHYSICAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL TORTURE AGAINST THE PANAMANIAN CITIZEN HERNAN ARIAS."</p><p>THE PANAMANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER ALSO REJECTED THE POSSIBILITY OF BREAKING RELATIONS WITH MEXICO OR PERU. ACCORDING TO HIS EXPLANATION, THE SITUATION WITH CUBA IS DIFFERENT. TODAY, PANAMA GAVE CUBAN AMBASSADOR LAZARO MORA FIVE DAYS TO QUIT THE COUNTRY "BECAUSE OF THE UNJUSTIFIED ATTACKS BY THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT AGAINST THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT."</p><p>FORMER PANAMA NATIONAL BANK MANAGER RAFAEL AROSEMENA HAS TAKEN REFUGE AT THE MEXICAN EMBASSY. AROSEMENA IS CHARGED WITH ALLOWING A FORMER COMMAND STAFF MEMBER OF THE ELIMINATED PANAMA DEFENSE FORCES [FDP] TO CASH CHECKS MADE OUT TO THE BEARER FOR $12 MILLION. THE FORMER FDP MAYORS HERACLIDIS SUCRE MEDINA AND GONZALO GONZALEZ CONTINUE TO STAY AT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY IN PANAMA. THEY ARE CHARGED WITH SEVERAL CRIMES.</p></body></html>