<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1003"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1003"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1003</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1003 (TRW)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 16 DEC 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] CHILEAN TERRORISTS MIGHT BE INVOLVED IN THE KIDNAPPING OF IMPORTANT BRAZILIAN BUSINESSMAN. THIS MORNING AN ANTIKIDNAPPING SQUAD OF THE POLICE OF SAO PAULO, BRAZIL, LOCATED BUSINESSMAN ABILIO DINIZ, DIRECTOR AND MAIN SHAREHOLDER OF ONE OF THE LARGEST ECONOMIC GROUPS IN BRAZIL. ABILIO DINIZ IS IN THE HANDS OF A GROUP PRESUMED TO BE CHILEAN TERRORISTS.</p><p>FIVE CHILEANS WERE ARRESTED LAST NIGHT. ANOTHER FOUR ARE HOLDING THE BRAZILIAN MULTIMILLIONAIRE IN A HOUSE IN THE SAO PAULO NEIGHBORHOOD OF JABAQUARA. THE KIPNAPPERS, WHO ARE SAID TO BE MEMBERS OF A GROUP CALLED CHILE'S INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENT, DEMANDED AN UNSPECIFIED SUM IN DOLLARS FOR THEIR GUERRILLA ACTIVITIES, AN ARMORED VEHICLE. WEAPONS, AND A PLANE TO GET AWAY.</p><p>THE WEALTHY BUSINESSMAN WAS KIDNAPPED LAST MONDAY IN SAO PAULO BY A GROUP THAT DROVE UP IN AMBULANCE AS DINIZ WAS JOGGING IN A CITY PARK. THE LOCAL POLICE HONORED A REQUEST FROM THE BUSINESSMAN'S FAMILY TO KEEP SILENT TO PROTECT THE VICTIM. POLICE SOURCES EXPRESSED THE SUSPICION THAT THE KIDNAPPERS OF ABILIO DINIZ ARE FROM THE SAME GROUP THAT KIDNAPPED THE PUBLISHER LUIZ SALLES AND RELEASED HIM AFTER A RANSOM OF $2.5 MILLION WAS PAID.</p></body></html>