<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0733"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0733"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0733</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0733 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 14 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] THIS MORNING OUR UNITS TOURED SEVERAL AREAS IN SAN SALVADOR AND THE OUTLYING MUNICIPALITIES. IN REALITY, SALVADORAN BROTHERS, OUR ARMED FORCES HAVE COMPLETELY WIPED OUT THE REDOUBTS OF THE TERRORISTS OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN]. IN SEVERAL PLACES IN SAN SALVADOR THERE IS HEAVY MOVEMENT. WE HAVE SEEN HUNDREDS OF SALVADORANS IN THE STREETS, THOUSANDS IN SOME AREAS, GOING TO THEIR WORKPLACES. THERE IS ACTIVITY IN THE STREETS.</p><p>WE CONGRATULATE THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WHO ARE MOVING ABOUT WITH OPTIMISM, FOR THEIR COURAGE AND BRAVERY. THEY ARE DEFYING THE BULLETS OF THE FMLN CRIMINALS AND MURDERERS, WHO ARE SOWING GRIEF AND MOURNING AMONG THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. THE FMLN DID NOT TAKE INTO ACCOUNT, HOWEVER, THAT EL SALVADOR HAS A PROFESSIONAL AND POWERFUL ARMED FORCES THAT THE PEOPLE SUPPORT. THIS ARMED FORCES IS DESTROYING ALL THE GUERRILLA REDOUBTS.</p><p>SALVADORANS: IF YOU ARE STILL AT HOME, YOU CAN GO OUT TO WORK UNLESS YOU ARE IN ONE OF THE FEW REMAINING RESTRICTED AREAS WHERE TERRORIST SNIPERS ARE OPERATING. THERE IS ACTIVITY AND MOVEMENT IN THE LARGE URBAN AREAS OF THE CITY AND ON THE MAIN STREETS OF THE CAPITAL. THE MARKETS AND COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS ARE OPENING FOR BUSINESS. THE SUPERMARKETS ARE OPENING THEIR DOORS. BUSES ARE OPERATING. WE WILL KEEP YOU INFORMED OF WHAT IS TAKING PLACE SO THAT YOU CAN MOVE ABOUT FREELY, KNOWING THAT YOUR ARMED FORCES IS SUPPORTING YOU, THAT EACH SOLDIER IS GUARDING YOUR LIFE. YOU HAVE TO TRUST IN YOUR ARMED FORCES, AS YOU ALWAYS HAVE, BECAUSE IT IS THE ARM THAT IS DEFENDINAMAPOLAS, SAN FRANCISCO NEIGHBORHOOD, SAN SALVADOR; IN THE VICINITY OF THE TORRE DEMOCRACIA BUILDING IN SAN SALVADOR; AND IN EL LIMON CANTON, SOYAPANGO. THERE WERE NO CASUALTIES AS A RESULT OF ANY OF THESE ENCOUNTERS.</p><p>AN ATTEMPT WAS MADE AGAINST THE DEPUTY FOREIGN MINISTER'S LIFE THROUGH AN ATTACK ON A RESIDENCE IN THE ESCALON NEIGHBORHOOD IN SAN SALVADOR. NO ONE WAS HURT, HOWEVER.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES ALSO REPORTED THAT A HARRASSMENT ATTACK WAS MADE ON THE GARRISON OF THE 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE, BUT THERE WERE NO CASUALTIES. THREE EXPLOSIONS HAVE BEEN HEARD IN APASTEPEQUE, BUT THEIR ORIGIN HAS NOT YET BEEN DETERMINED.</p><p>ARMED FORCES PERSONNEL WERE ALSO HARRASSED NORTH OF THE 6TH INFANTRY BRIGADE AND NATIONAL POLICE INSTALLATIONS IN BERLIN, BUT AGAIN NO CASUALTIES WERE REPORTED.</p></body></html>