<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0906"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0906"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0906</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0906 (GTE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 30 NOV 89 (RADIO CADENA CUSCATLAN) -- [TEXT] THE CLANDESTINE AND LIAR RADIO STATIONS OF THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] TERRORISTS CONTINUE TO CONDUCT A DISINFORMATION CAMPAIGN AT AN INTERNATIONAL LEVEL WITH THE PURPOSE OF DISTORTING THE TRUTH REGARDING THE AGGRESSION THESE BANDITS HAVE LAUNCHED AGAINST THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>VERY FREQUENTLY THEY BROADCAST REPORTS OF UNIMAGINABLE MILITARY VICTORIES OF THE FMLN. THEIR LIAR RADIO STATIONS SAY THEY HAVE OCCUPIED THE MUNICIPALITIES OF SOYAPANGO, MEJICANOS, AYUTUXTEPEQUE, CIUDAD DELGADO, AND OTHERS, WHICH, DESPITE THE TRAGEDY WE ARE SUFFERING, MAKES PEOPLE BURST OUT LAUGHING BECAUSE EVERYONE KNOWS THESE ARE BIG LIES. THESE CLAIMS ARE ABSOLUTELY FALSE. THE RESIDENTS OF THOSE MUNICIPALITIES ARE GOING TO THEIR JOBS, BUSES ARE OPERATING, AND EVERYDAY ACTIVITIES ARE BEING CONDUCTED IN A NORMAL MANNER.</p><p>THE LIAR RADIO STATIONS OF THE FMLN THINK THEY CAN CONFUSE THE PUBLIC OPINION WITH THEIR FALSE INFORMATION. THESE STATIONS ARE USED FOR PROPAGANDISTIC AND DISINFORMATION PURPOSES TO MAKE IT APPEAR AS IF THE FMLN IS WINNING MILITARY VICTORIES, WHICH THEY HAVE NEVER ATTAINED AND WHICH ARE ONLY IN THE MINDS OF ORTEGA'S PUPPETS, WHO BROADCAST FROM MANAGUA.</p><p>THE PEOPLE ARE ASKING THEMSELVES: WHERE ARE THE COWARDLY TERRORIST AND MURDEROUS CHIEFS OF THE FMLN, SHAFIK HANDAL, JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS, AND OTHER COWARDS, WHO ARE IN MANAGUA ENJOYING A LUXURIOUS LIFE AND GOOD FOOD?</p><p>THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ARE FULLY AWARE OF THE VICTORIOUS ACTIONS OF OUR ARMED FORCES, WHO SINCE THE BEGINNING OF THIS GENOCIDAL AND TERRORIST FMLN OFFENSIVE HAVE FACED THE AGGRESSIVE MERCENARIES BY REDUCING THEM TO SMALL TERRORIST GROUPS, WHICH ARE LOST AND ARE IRRATIONALLY ATTACKING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION.</p><p>THE FMLN HAS RIDICULOUSLY CLAIMED TO COMPLETELY CONTROL CERTAIN MUNICIPALITIES. ALL OF THESE LIES SHOW THAT THE MURDEROUS FMLN LEADERS DO NOT HAVE ANY ARGUMENTS WITH WHICH TO CONCEAL THEIR UNSUCCESSFUL REBEL OFFENSIVE.</p><p>THEIR GREATEST FAILURE HAS BEEN THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S REJECTION OF THE REBEL ACTIONS. DESPITE SO MANY THREATS MADE BY THE FMLN TERRORISTS, OUR PEOPLE HAVE NEVER SUPPORTED THEM, LET ALONE AGREED TO ACCEPT THE WEAPONS THAT THE FMLN WERE OFFERING THEM IF THEY JOINED THE REBELLION. THE FMLN AND ITS TERRORIST OFFENSIVE, WHICH WAS CONDUCTED WITH THE WEAPONS THAT DICTATOR ORTEGA HAS GIVEN TO THE FMLN PUPPETS, HAS FAILED, AND THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE EXPECT THE NATIONS OF THE FREE WORLD TO CONDEMN THIS GENOCIDAL AGGRESSION OF INTERNATIONAL COMMUNISM.</p></body></html>