<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0802"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0802"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0802</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0802 (PRC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 18 NOV 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] GUILLERMO UNGO, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL AND MAIN LEADER OF THE SALVADORAN CIVILIAN LEFT, WILL MEET WITH THE PRESIDENTS OF VENEZUELA AND FRANCE AND THE PRIME MINISTER OF SPAIN IN THE NEXT FEW DAYS. UNGO LEFT EL SALVADOR TODAY.</p><p>SPOKESMEN OF THE NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT (MNR), WHOSE SECRETARY GENERAL IS UNGO, TOLD ACAN-EFE THAT THE LEFTIST LEADER WILL MEET WITH CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ, FRANCOIS MITTERRAND, AND FELIPE GONZALEZ AND ASK THEM TO WORK FOR A CEASE-FIRE IN EL SALVADOR. UNGO WILL ALSO ASK FOR THE "IMMEDIATE" RESUMPTION OF THE PEACE TALKS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN).</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT AND THE GUERRILLAS HAD BEEN SCHEDULED TO HOLD A THIRD ROUND OF NEGOTIATIONS IN CARACAS ON 20 NOVEMBER, BUT AFTER THE ASSASSINATION OF 10 LABOR LEADERS THE FMLN ANNOUNCED LAST WEEK IT WOULD NOT ATTEND.</p><p>SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI TOLD ACAN-EFE TODAY THAT "WE WILL NOT GO TO A MEETING WHERE THE OTHER SIDE IS NOT PRESENT."</p><p>UNGO LEFT FOR PANAMA TODAY AFTER HAVING TAKEN REFUGE IN THE VENEZUELAN EMBASSY IN EL SALVADOR 6 DAYS AGO BECAUSE HE WAS THE TARGET OF DEATH THREATS OVER AN OFFICIAL RADIO NETWORK. THE SALVADORAN SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC LEADER WILL ALSO ATTEND A SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL MEETING IN GENEVA NEXT WEEK.</p><p>AN MNR SPOKESMAN SAID UNGO "PLANS TO RETURN TO EL SALVADOR IN ABOUT 10 DAYS."</p><p>MEANWHILE, MNR ASSISTANT SECRETARY HECTOR OQUELI COLINDRES, WHO ALSO LEFT EL SALVADOR TODAY, WILL MEET WITH REPRESENTATIVES OF THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT IN THE NEXT FEW HOURS TO DISCUSS THE SALVADORAN SITUATION AND ASK FOR PRESIDENT OSCAR ARIAS' MEDIATION.</p></body></html>