<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1102"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1102"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1102</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1102 (UNISYS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 13 FEB 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] THE NATIONAL POLICE'S DIJIN [DIRECTORATE OF JUDICIAL POLICE AND INVESTIGATIONS] HAS REVEALED A TERRORIST PLAN THAT THE NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY, ELN, WAS PLANNING TO CARRY OUT IN NORTHERN AND EASTERN COLOMBIA IN MARCH, AND ADDED THAT THIS SUBVERSIVE GROUP IS DIVIDED BY DIFFERENCES BETWEEN ITS LEADERS.</p><p>A COMMUNIQUE ISSUED BY THIS SECURITY ORGANIZATION STATES THAT, FOLLOWING AN EXHAUSTIVE INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATION, IT WAS CONCLUDED THAT THIS GUERRILLA MOVEMENT IS DIVIDED, BECAUSE AN ELN FACTION REFUSES TO ACCEPT THE DECISIONS OF FORMER SPANISH PRIEST MANUEL PEREZ MARTINEZ.</p><p>IT ALSO STATES THAT THE DISSIDENT GROUP HAS ACCUSED THE FORMER SPANISH CLERGYMAN AND TOP ELN LEADER OF MONOPOLIZING ECONOMIC RESOURCES, PREVENTING THE MODERNIZATION OF THE RANK AND FILE, MAINTAINING A SECURITY GROUP MADE UP OF CRIMINALS, ASSUMING PATERNALISTIC ATTITUDES, AND USING THE MARXIST IDEOLOGY FOR HIS OWN BENEFIT.</p><p>THE REPORT ALSO REVEALED THAT THE INSURGENT ORGANIZATION WAS PLANNING TO CARRY OUT A SO-CALLED KEY OPERATION IN NORTHERN AND EASTERN COLOMBIA THAT WOULD HAVE INCLUDED THE KIDNAPPING OF PERSONALITIES, THE OCCUPATION OF TOWNS, AND THE ASSASSINATION OF TOP ARMED FORCES OFFICERS.</p><p>MEANWHILE, TROOPS OF THE NATIONAL ARMY'S 5TH BRIGADE HAVE INTENSIFIED SEARCH AND CONTROL OPERATIONS IN A RURAL AREA OF SAN VICENTE DE CHUCURI MUNICIPALITY, MIDDLE MAGDALENA, SANTANDER DEPARTMENT, AFTER KILLING SIX ELN SUBVERSIVES AND SEIZING ABUNDANT WAR MATERIEL.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE DEFENSE MINISTRY'S ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT, THERE WAS A CLASH BETWEEN UNITS OF THE (LUCIANO DE LUGER) BATTALION AND GUERRILLAS OF THE ELN'S CAPTAIN PARMENIO FRONT IN LA TEMPESTUOSA PATH, SAN VICENTE DE CHUCURI MUNICIPALITY, SANTANDER DEPARTMENT. SIX UNIDENTIFIED INSURGENTS WERE KILLED AND WEAPONS OF VARIOUS CALIBERS, AMMUNITION, UNIFORMS, DOCUMENTS, AND SUBVERSIVE PROPAGANDA WERE SEIZED.</p><p>MEMBERS OF THE 5TH BRIGADE ARE PATROLLING VARIOUS MUNICIPALITIES OF SANTANDER DEPARTMENT TO GUARANTEE NORMAL ELECTIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE NATIONAL CIVIL REGISTRY.</p></body></html>