<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1052"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1052"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1052</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1052 (TRW)</p><p>BOGOTA, 17 JAN 90 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] ON LEARNING OF THE EXTRADITABLES' STATEMENT CONCERNING THE RELEASE OF KIDNAPPED PERSONS AND THE SUSPENSION OF DRUG- TRAFFICKING ACTIVITIES, GOVERNMENT MINISTER CARLOS LEMOS SIMMONDS, EXPRESSING HIS SATISFACTION, SAID TODAY THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS WON THE WAR AGAINST DRUG-TRAFFICKING WITHOUT ENGAGING IN ANY NEGOTIATIONS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [LEMOS SIMMONDS] I AM VERY PLEASED, KNOWING THAT WE HAVE FULFILLED OUR DUTIES AND THAT THE AUTHORITIES WHO IMPLEMENTED THE NO-DEAL POLICY HAVE WON A WAR THAT MANY BELIEVED HAD BEEN LOST. [END RECORDING]</p><p>MINISTER LEMOS SIMMONDS ALSO SAID THAT THE GOVERNMENT WILL NOT REVERSE ITS EXTRADITION POLICY BECAUSE EXTRADITIONS ARE A LEGAL TOOL THAT HAS BEEN IN EFFECT IN COLOMBIA SINCE 1888.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [LEMOS SIMMONDS] I SIGNED THE DECREE THAT REESTABLISHED ADMINISTRATIVE EXTRADITION PROCEDURES, AND I SIGNED IT WITH COMPLETE AWARENESS. I CANNOT SAY ANYTHING DIFFERENT NOW FROM WHAT I SAID 4 OR 5 MONTHS AGO. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE MINISTER SAID THE GOVERNMENT WILL NOT NEGOTIATE WITH THE DRUG-TRAFFICKERS, BUT ALSO WILL NOT ACT ARROGANTLY IN DEFEATING THEM. HE ADDED THAT NEW MEASURES AIMED AT STOPPING KIDNAPPINGS IN THE COUNTRY ARE BEING STUDIED.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [LEMOS SIMMONDS] OF COURSE NOT ALL THE KIDNAPPED PEOPLE HAVE BEEN RELEASED. LET US HOPE THAT THE DRUG-TRAFFICKERS AND EXTRADITABLES' PROMISE -- THAT NO ONE WILL BE KIDNAPPED AGAIN -- IS KEPT. THE TRUTH IS I CANNOT SAY THAT THERE WILL BE NO MORE KIDNAPPINGS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT HAS CONSIDERED THE POSSIBILITY OF SUSPENDING THE EXTRADITION OF DRUG-TRAFFICKERS TO THE UNITED STATES IF THEY PUT DOWN THEIR WEAPONS AND SUSPEND THEIR DRUG SHIPMENTS ABROAD.</p></body></html>