<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0286"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0286"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0286</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0286 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 7 JUL 89 (IZVESTIYA) -- [REPORT] [V. ZAYKIN] [TEXT] THIRTYTHREE SOVIET SEAMEN HAVE BEEN INJURED IN THE PERUVIAN PORT OF CALLAO AS A RESULT OF AN EXPLOSION CAUSED BY A BOMB PLANTED UNDER A BUS STANDING IN THE STREET.</p><p>OUR CORRESPONDENT TELEPHONED THE USSR MINISTRY OF THE FISH INDUSTRY AND ASKED FOR INFORMATION ON THE INCIDENT.</p><p>"IT HAPPENED ON 5 JULY AT 1010 HOURS LOCAL TIME," S. SVINARENKO, DEPUTY CHIEF OF THE USSR MINISTRY OF THE FISH INDUSTRY FOREIGN RELATIONS ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT, SAID. "SIXTEEN SEAMEN HAD TO BE HOSPITALIZED. FORTUNATELY, NO ONE WAS SERIOUSLY HURT. THE SEAMEN MAINLY SUFFERED FRACTURES, CUTS, AND BURNS. THE VICTIMS WERE MEMBERS OF THE CREWS OF TWO LARGE, AUTONOMOUS TRAWLERS -- THE 'VLADIMIR KURASOV' AND THE 'LAZURNYY' -- WHO WERE ON SHORE LEAVE THAT DAY.</p><p>"OUR SEAMEN ARE WORKING IN THIS REGION ON THE BASIS OF AN AGREEMENT ON COOPERATION BETWEEN PERU AND THE SOVIET UNION. WE ASSIST THE PERUVIANS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF THEIR FISHING INDUSTRY, GET OUR SHIPS REPAIRED IN LOCAL PORTS, AND FISH WITHIN A 200-MILE ZONE OF THAT COUNTRY...."</p><p>REUTER AND AFP HAVE REPORTED THAT, IN THE OPINION OF THE CALLAO POLICE, THE EXPLOSION WAS ORGANIZED BY THE "SENDERO LUMINOSO," A REBEL GROUP OF MAOIST PERSUASION. "THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO DOUBT THAT THIS ACT, WHICH DESERVES TO BE CONDEMNED, WAS DIRECTED AGAINST TOTALLY INNOCENT CITIZENS," PERUVIAN FOREIGN MINISTER GUILLERMO LARCO COX SAID.</p><p>THE SOVIET SEAMEN WERE ON A BUS WHICH HAD STOPPED AT A STORE WHEN THE BOMB, PLANTED UNDER AN EMPTY BUS STANDING NEARBY, WAS DETONATED.</p><p>ACCORDING TO EYE WITNESSES, FOUR YOUNG PEOPLE WEARING SCHOOL UNIFORM WERE SEEN AT THE SCENE OF THE INCIDENT A FEW MOMENTS BEFORE THE EXPLOSION, PLACING A PACKAGE UNDER THE BUS.</p><p>"SENDERO LUMINOSO" IS AN EXTREME LEFT-WING REBEL ORGANIZATION WAGING A GUERRILLA WAR AGAINST THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT.</p><p>"SENDERO LUMINOSO" HAS BEEN IN EXISTENCE FOR MORE THAN 20 YEARS. IT BEGAN ITS ARMED STRUGGLE IN 1980. SINCE THEN, PERU HAS KNOWN NO PEACE. REPORTS OF MURDERS AND ACTS OF SABOTAGE COMMITTED BY THIS ORGANIZATION ARE APPEARING WITH INCREASING FREQUENCY IN THE WORLD PRESS. THE TERRORISTS' VICTIMS ARE POLITICIANS, MEMBERS OF THE POLICE FORCE, SOLDIERS, PEASANTS.... THE TERRORISTS OFTEN INVOLVE JUVENILES IN THEIR ACTS OF SABOTAGE.</p><p>THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN FORCED TO RELY MORE AND MORE EXTENSIVELY ON THE ARMED FORCES IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST THIS TERRORIST ORGANIZATION. BUT SO FAR THIS HAS FAILED TO PRODUCE TANGIBLE RESULTS.</p></body></html>