<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0646"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0646"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0646</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0646 (GE)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), NO DATE (RADIO MAGALLANES) -- [STATEMENT] [CHILEAN COMMUNIST PARTY] [TEXT] THE COUNTRY IS EXPERIENCING ONE OF THE WORST ANTICOMMUNIST AND TERRORIST CAMPAIGNS IN A LONG TIME. THIS CAMPAIGN IS SIMILAR TO THE ONE UNLEASHED BETWEEN 1964 AND 1970. THE SITUATION IS FURTHER AGGRAVATED BECAUSE IT IS TAKING PLACE UNDER A DICTATORSHIP THAT WILL STOP AT NOTHING TO ACHIEVE ITS OBJECTIVES.</p><p>DURING HIS SPEECH IN COIHAIQUE, PINOCHET THREATENED TO END THE STATE OF LAW. THIS HAS BEEN FOLLOWED BY OTHER THREATS BY [DEPUTY OPPONENTS, AND BY EQUALLY THREATENING STATEMENTS AND SYSTEMATIC AGGRESSION AGAINST ARMY MEMBERS WHO CRITICIZE THE DICTATORIAL REGIME.</p><p>MEANWHILE EL MERCURIO AND THE PROGOVERNMENT NEWS MEDIA HAVE ORCHESTRATED A CAMPAIGN THAT IS FINANCED BY BUCHI'S ELECTORAL MANAGERS. THIS CAMPAIGN USES EDITORIALS, ATTRIBUTED ARTICLES, AND PAID ADS THAT ARE AIMED AT MISINFORMING AND MANIPULATING PUBLIC OPINION.</p><p>THE OBJECTIVE IS TO CREATE A MOOD OF AGGRESSION TOWARD THE LEFT AND TOWARD THE COMMUNIST PARTY, A MOOD THAT WOULD JUSTIFY ANY KIND OF PROVOCATION.</p><p>THE WORST EXAMPLE WAS A RECENT PAID AD PUBLISHED BY BUCHI'S ELECTORAL MANAGERS ON AN ALLEGED THREAT OF COMMUNIST STRIKE SQUADS THAT WERE GOING TO GUN DOWN THE PROGOVERNMENT CANDIDATE. IT IS WELL KNOWN THAT THIS STATEMENT, REPORTEDLY MADE BY A YOUNG CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY LEADER TO LA SEGUNDA ON 31 OCTOBER, WAS LATER FLATLY DENIED BY THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC LEADER HIMSELF. DESPITE THIS DENIAL, BUCHI'S CAMPAIGN MANAGERS ARE STILL HARPING ON THE SUBJECT, TRYING TO CREATE AN ATMOSPHERE OF VIOLENCE AND UNEASE.</p><p>THE BRUTAL MURDER OF JECAR NEGHME, UNSOLVED LIKE SO MANY OTHERS, HAS BEEN FOLLOWED BY OTHER SERIOUS EVENTS INCLUDING THE KIDNAPPING OF THE DRIVER OF VOLODIA TEITELBOIM, THE SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY. THIS WAS A THREAT TO COMRADE VOLODIA TEITELBOIM'S SAFETY AND PHYSICAL INTEGRITY. THERE HAS ALSO BEEN HARASSMENT OF LEADERS AND CANDIDATES OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY AND OTHER DEMOCRATIC PARTIES, AN INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF ARBITRARY ARRESTS OF OPPONENTS IN GENERAL, THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A NEW JOINT COMMAND HEADED BY THE DEFENSE MINISTER. THE ALLEGED OBJECTIVE OF THIS COMMAND IS TO FIGHT CRIME, BUT THE PEOPLE HAVE RIGHTLY GUESSED THAT IT IS A COVER FOR POLITICAL REPRESSION SIMILAR TO THAT CONDUCTED BY A PRIOR ORGANIZATION THAT BORE THE SAME NAME.</p><p>IN THIS ANTICOMMUNIST AND ANTIDEMOCRATIC ATMOSPHERE, MEETINGS HAVE BEEN HELD WITH OFFICERS AND RELATIVES OF MILITARY MEN. DURING THESE MEETINGS THE AUDIENCE IS MISINFORMED, THREATENED, AND URGED TO OPPOSE DEMOCRATIC CHANGES. THEY ARE ALSO URGED TO HOARD STAPLES AND TO TAKE SPECIAL MEASURES TO PROVIDE FOR EXTREME CONTINGENCIES.</p><p>THERE IS YET ANOTHER ESPECIALLY SERIOUS DEVELOPMENT ABOUT WHICH WE WANT TO INFORM THE PEOPLE. WE HAVE RECEIVED INFORMATION FROM VARIOUS SOURCES TO THE EFFECT THAT THE CROWNING POINT OF THIS ANTICOMMUNIST CAMPAIGN WILL BE AN ATTACK ON A HIGH-RANKING ARMY OFFICER WHO HAS BEEN CRITICIZED FOR HIS INVOLVEMENT IN HUMAN-RIGHTS VIOLATIONS. THE CHARGES AGAINST THIS OFFICER MADE BY COMMUNIST PARTY CANDIDATES FOR SENATORS, AND THE DEMONSTRATIONS HELD AGAINST HIM BY THE RELATIVES OF THE VICTIMS, WILL BE USED TO BLAME THE COMMUNISTS FOR THIS ATTACK.</p><p>WE WANT TO REITERATE OUR ABSOLUTE REJECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS AND OUR DEMAND FOR TRUTH AND JUSTICE. HOWEVER, WE ALSO WANT TO MAKE IT CLEAR THAT WE ARE STRUGGLING TO HAVE EVERY CRIME AND EVERY VIOLATION INVESTIGATED AND THE CULPRITS TRIED.</p><p>THE ATMOSPHERE OF FEAR AND PSYCHOLOGICAL WARFARE IS AIMED AT TWISTING THE POPULAR WILL OF THE CHILEAN PEOPLE AND DESTABILIZING IN ADVANCE THE NEXT DEMOCRATIC ADMINISTRATION.</p><p>WE CALL UPON THE CITIZENRY TO BE PREPARED TO DISPLAY UNITY AND DEMOCRATIC ORGANIZATION SO AS TO GUARANTEE THE NORMAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE ONGOING ELECTORAL PROCESS AND TO BE ON GUARD AGAINST ANY PROVOCATION AIMED AT CREATING A CLIMATE FAVORABLE TO AN INTERRUPTION OF THE PROCESS. WE MUST DEPLOY OUR FORCES IF WE ARE TO ENSURE THE VICTORY OF FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY IN A LANDSLIDE VICTORY FOR PATRICIO AYLWIN ON 14 DECEMBER AND THE ELECTION OF A CONGRESS CAPABLE OF GUARANTEEING PROGRESS TOWARD THE GOVERNMENT SYSTEM THAT MOST CHILEANS WANT.</p><p>SIGNED: CHILEAN COMMUNIST PARTY</p><p>DATED: SANTIAGO, 2 NOVEMBER 1989</p></body></html>