<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0905"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0905"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0905</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0905 (GTE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 30 NOV 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] THERE IS A TENSE CALM, INTERRUPTED BY SPORADIC SHOOTING, IN THE EXCLUSIVE ESCALON NEIGHBORHOOD OF THE SALVADORAN CAPITAL TODAY. AT THE SAME TIME, MANY FOREIGNERS ARE LEAVING THE NEIGHBORHOOD, WHICH WAS THE SITE OF HEAVY FIGHTING BETWEEN THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES AND GUERRILLAS YESTERDAY.</p><p>AN OFFICIAL OF THE UN OFFICE, WHICH IS LOCATED IN THE AREA OF FIGHTING, TOLD ACAN-EFE THAT "ALL THE PERSONNEL ARE FINE AND WE ARE NOW EVACUATING SOME EMPLOYEES AND FOREIGNERS LIVING IN THE AREA, TAKING ADVANTAGE OF THE CEASE-FIRE" THAT WAS ORDERED BY THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS FOR SEVERAL HOURS.</p><p>"WE HAVE NOT SEEN ANY GUERRILLAS. THE SOLDIERS ARE IN THE AREA AND ENTRANCE IS RESTRICTED. THEY ARE ONLY PERMITTING THE EVACUATION," THE OFFICIAL SAID OVER THE TELEPHONE.</p><p>A SPOKESMAN OF THE ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE (COPREFA) SAID THIS MORNING THAT THE ELITE COUNTERINSURGENCY BELLOSO AND ATLACATL BATTALIONS AND TROOPS WITH ARTILLERY ARE CARRYING OUT A SPECIAL OPERATION IN ESCALON TO DISLODGE THE REBELS. THE SPOKESMAN SAID THE OPERATION WILL INCLUDE ALL OF NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR. HOWEVER, HE SAID HE COULD NOT PROVIDE FURTHER INFORMATION BECAUSE "WE ARE STILL COMPILING INFORMATION."</p><p>THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) ON 29 NOVEMBER RESUMED ITS ATTACKS IN SAN SALVADOR, ESPECIALLY IN THE UPPER CLASS NEIGHBORHOODS OF ESCALON, SAN BENITO, AND MAQUILISHUAT AND THE MIDDLE CLASS NEIGHBORHOODS OF JARDIN GUADALUPE, LA CIMA, AND LOMAS DE SAN FRANCISCO.</p><p>AFTER SEVERAL HOURS OF FIGHTING IN THE STREETS OF THE NEIGHBORHOODS, THE ARMY SAID IT HAD THE SITUATION UNDER CONTROL. HOWEVER, IT ADMITTED THAT THE REBELS HAD ENTRENCHED THEMSELVES IN ESCALON AND HAD SEIZED "THE RESIDENTS AS HOSTAGES."</p><p>THE GUERRILLAS ANNOUNCED LAST NIGHT THAT FROM 0600 TO 1200 (1200 - 1800 GMT) TODAY, 30 NOVEMBER, THEY "WILL UNDERTAKE THE EVACUATION OF FOREIGN PERSONNEL" IN THE ESCALON AND SAN BENITO NEIGHBORHOODS IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR. THE FMLN SAID THE MEASURE, WHICH IS BEING HEEDED BY THE FOREIGNERS LIVING IN THOSE AREAS, IS TO GUARANTEE THE LIVES OF THE RESIDENTS OF ESCALON.</p><p>VARIOUS SOURCES SAID THE REBELS HAVE LEFT ESCALON, BUT THIS INFORMATION HAS YET TO BE CONFIRMED.</p></body></html>