<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0827"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0827"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0827</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0827 (PRC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 21 NOV 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] THE THREE SPANISH MEMBERS OF THE INTERNATIONAL PEACE BRIGADES, FREED TODAY BY THE SALVADORAN NATIONAL GUARD, SAID THAT THE AUTHORITIES ORDERED THEM TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY BECAUSE THEY WERE SUSPECTED OF COLLABORATING WITH "TERRORIST DELINQUENTS."</p><p>"WE ARE BEING THROWN OUT OF THE COUNTRY," SAID FRANCES RIERA, ONE OF THE SPANIARDS DETAINED THIS MORNING TOGETHER WITH HIS FELLOW COUNTRYMEN ESTHER DOMENECH AND LUIS PEREZ, A GUATEMALAN UNDER REFUGE AT THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH, AND ANOTHER THREE FOREIGNERS -- A COLOMBIAN, A CANADIAN, AND AN AMERICAN.</p><p>RIERA SAID THEY WERE DETAINED AT 1005 GMT, WHILE THE CITY WAS "UNDER CURFEW" AND UNDER A "STATE OF SIEGE," AND THAT NATIONAL GUARD MEMBERS "KNOCKED ON THE DOOR, ENTERED, SEPARATED US, TOOK THE FOREIGNERS ASIDE, AND DELIVERED US AN ANTICOMMUNIST HARANGUE."</p><p>"THEY TOLD US THEY WERE ARRESTING US FOR OUR OWN PROTECTION BECAUSE FOREIGNERS WERE BEING THREATENED BY TERRORIST DELINQUENTS. AT THE NATIONAL GUARD WE WERE MADE TO SIGN A STATEMENT IN WHICH WE APPEAR AS SUSPECTS OF COLLABORATING WITH TERRORIST DELINQUENTS," RIERA ADDED.</p><p>THE THREE SPANIARDS ARE AT THE SPANISH EMBASSY, AFTER AMBASSADOR FRANCISCO CADIZ IMMEDIATELY WENT INTO ACTION TO GET THEM FREED.</p><p>A TOTAL OF 15 PEOPLE WERE DETAINED, NINE OF THEM SALVADORANS, AND WE "KNOW NOTHING OF THEIR WHEREABOUTS," RIERA SAID. HE ADDED THAT THEY HAD REMAINED IN DETENTION FOR OVER 1 HOUR, STRESSING THAT "WE WERE NEVER MISTREATED NOR WERE WE ASKED ANY QUESTIONS."</p><p>RIERA SAID THAT THERE ARE MORE THAN 135 PEOPLE AT THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH WHO WERE LEFT HOMELESS BY THE WAR, AND MORE ARE EXPECTED TODAY.</p><p>"PEOPLE HAVE TO REMAIN THERE (AT THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH) BECAUSE THEY HAVE NO PLACE TO GO. THERE ARE NO PLACES LEFT AFTER THE SALVADORAN AIR FORCE BOMBINGS," RIERA STRESSED.</p><p>HE ADDED THAT THE CHURCH "HAS EVIDENCE THAT WHOLE NEIGHBORHOODS WERE SET ON FIRE."</p><p>RIERA REPORTED THAT AT THE END OF AUGUST "ARMED MEN, DRESSED IN MILITARY UNIFORMS," ENTERED HIS HOME AND "INTIMIDATED US."</p><p>THE THREE FREED SPANIARDS WILL RETURN AS SOON AS POSSIBLE TO MADRID, VIA GUATEMALA, A SPOKESMAN FOR THE SPANISH EMBASSY IN SAN SALVADOR REPORTED.</p></body></html>