<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1010"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1010"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1010</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1010 (TRW)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 12 DEC 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [INTERVIEW WITH LEO CABRAL, FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) COMMANDER, BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [REPORTER] THE FIRST QUESTION WE ASK COMRADE LEO CABRAL IS: WHAT ARE THE RESULTS OF THE OFFENSIVE AFTER 1 MONTH?</p><p>[CABRAL] TODAY, 11 DECEMBER, AFTER 1 MONTH OF A GLORIOUS AND VICTORIOUS OFFENSIVE, WE HAVE SOME THOUGHTS REGARDING THIS LATEST FIGHT. WE WANT TO STRESS THAT ALL OUR OFFENSIVES HAVE CENTERED AROUND THE MAIN CITIES IN OUR COUNTRY. ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT AND SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS OF THIS STRUGGLE BY THE PEOPLE AND THE FMLN IS HAVING MAINTAINED THE BESIEGEMENT ON THE MOST IMPORTANT POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC POINTS, MOST ESPECIALLY ON THE COUNTRY'S CAPITAL. THERE HAS BEEN GREAT PRESSURE IN THE CASE OF SAN SALVADOR, AND THE FMLN HAS FORCED THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF, COLONEL PONCE, AND THE FASCIST HIGH COMMAND TO CHANGE THEIR STRATEGIC TACTICS THREE TIMES.</p><p>YOU WILL RECALL THAT THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF FIRST TRIED TO DISLODGE THE FMLN FORCES THAT HAD ENTERED SINCE THE EVENING OF 11 NOVEMBER. WHEN THE FIRST PUPPET ARMY STRATEGIC DEFENSE TACTIC FAILED, THEY THEN TRIED TO ISOLATE THE FMLN FORCES FROM ONE ANOTHER AND ANNIHILATE THEM ONE BY ONE. FOR THIS, THEY CONCENTRATED SPECIAL FORCES, ESPECIALLY USING ELITE BATTALIONS, IN A SIEGE MODALITY FOR ANNIHILATION. THIS ALSO FAILED. FACED WITH THE SECOND FAILURE OF THEIR SPECIAL TACTICS TO END THE OFFENSIVE IN A FEW DAYS, AS CRISTIANI AND THE HIGH MILITARY COMMAND HAD SAID, THEY MOVED A GREAT NUMBER OF OPERATIONAL FORCES FROM THE COUNTRY'S INTERIOR, SUCH AS THE ELITE BATTALIONS, TO SET UP AN EXTENSIVE SIEGE TO DEFEND THE CAPITAL CITY AND PREVENT OUR FORCES FROM ENTERING IT. AS ALL OUR PEOPLE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO SEE -- AND INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC OPINION HAS ALSO BEEN ABLE TO VERIFY THIS THROUGH A GREAT AMOUNT OF INFORMATION FLOWING THROUGH INTERNATIONAL REPORTERS -- THAT SIEGE TO KEEP OUT THE FMLN HAS ALSO FAILED. THIS MEANS MORE VICTORIES AND SUCCESSES, SUCH AS INCURSIONS INTO THE ESCALON NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE SOUTHERN AREA OF ANTIGUO CUSCATLAN, AND TWO IMPORTANT ATTACKS ON THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF.</p><p>RIGHT NOW WE SEE THAT THE PUPPET ARMY'S SPECIAL CITY OPERATION IS THEIR THIRD AND LAST PLAN. THEY HAVE FORMED FOUR COMMANDS TO CONTROL THE CITY, WHICH WILL ALSO BE DEFEATED BY OUR FMLN MILITARY FORCES. WE ALSO MUST ADD TO THIS LIST OF ACHIEVEMENTS THAT THE GREAT CONCENTRATION OF ENEMY ARMY OPERATIONAL FORCES IN THE CAPITAL HAS CAUSED A GREAT NATIONAL IMBALANCE IN FORCES. THIS MEANS THAT EXTENSIVE AREAS OF THE COUNTRY ARE WITHOUT THE PROTECTION OF THE PUPPET TROOPS. WE HAVE TAKEN ADVANTAGE OF THIS AND HAVE WORKED ON ORGANIZING THE PEOPLE AND RAISING A PEOPLE'S POWER, AN ALTERNATIVE TO LOCAL REACTIONARY POWER.</p><p>WE ALSO RECORD AS A SUCCESSFUL OFFENSIVE DURING THIS FIRST MONTH THE FACT THAT OUR ENEMY'S INTELLIGENCE WORK HAS BEEN COMPLETELY SMASHED. THE SEARCHES, WHICH HAVE BEEN ENTRUSTED IN AN IMPROVISED MANNER TO MILITARY TROOPS CONCENTRATED IN THE CITIES, ESPECIALLY THE REPRESSIVE CORPS, HAVE ATTEMPTED TO RESTORE ALL THE INTELLIGENCE DATA BANKS TO BE ABLE TO TRY AND DESTROY THE PEOPLE'S STRUGGLE. WE MUST ALSO RECORD AS ONE OF THE SUCCESSES OF OUR GENERAL OFFENSIVE DURING THIS FIRST MONTH THE FACT THAT THE PUPPET ARMY WAS FORCED TO ABORT ANOTHER PLAN. EVEN THOUGH THERE WERE SOME BLOODY EVENTS, SUCH AS THE MURDER OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS, ALONG WITH A GREAT AMOUNT OF KIDNAPPINGS AND MISSING PEOPLE AND ARRESTS OF MEMBERS OR LEADERS OF GRASSROOT PEOPLE'S MOVEMENTS, WE FEEL THAT THE ARMY AND REPRESSIVE CORPS ARE INCAPABLE OF ATTENDING TO THE FMLN OFFENSIVE AND THE BESIEGEMENT AT THE SAME TIME THAT THEY ARE TRYING TO CARRY OUT THEIR ANNIHILATION OF THE PEOPLE'S MOVEMENT. SO THIS IS ANOTHER SUCCESS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>