<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1159"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1159"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1159</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1159 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 8 MAR 90 (AFP) -- [TEXT] SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI HAS ACCUSED THE GUERRILLAS OF MAINTAINING "INFLEXIBLE STANDS" REGARDING RESUMING THE DIALOGUE THAT WILL ALLOW ENDING THE 10-YEAR-OLD ARMED CONFLICT.</p><p>IN AN OFFICIAL STATEMENT TODAY, PRESIDENT CRISTIANI SAID THAT "THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) DOES NOT WANT TO LISTEN TO THE CRIES OF THE PEOPLE WHO ARE REJECTING VIOLENCE."</p><p>FOR CRISTIANI, THE FMLN "IS THE ONLY PARTY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE TERRORIST ACTIONS, AS IT MAINTAINS INFLEXIBLE STANDS" ABOUT THE PEACE PROCESS.</p><p>THE REBELS, WHO ROSE UP IN ARMS 10 YEARS AGO, RECENTLY SAID THAT AS LONG AS THERE IS NO TRUE ATTEMPT TO BRING ABOUT A DEMOCRATIZATION, ITS ARMED STRUGGLE "CONTINUES BEING AS LEGITIMATE AS IT WAS 10 YEARS AGO."</p><p>FOLLOWING THE NOVEMBER 1989 OFFENSIVE, THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN ASKED UN SECRETARY GENERAL JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR TO INTERCEDE AND SEEK AN AGREEMENT THAT WILL BRING ABOUT THE PEACE TALKS.</p><p>HEEDING THIS REQUEST, PEREZ DE CUELLAR APPOINTED DIPLOMAT ALVARO DE SOTO AS HIS PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE. AS OF LAST DECEMBER, DE SOTO HAS BEEN MEETING WITH BOTH PARTIES, THE CHURCH, AND SALVADORAN POLITICAL SECTORS.</p><p>THE CRISTIANI STATEMENT TERMS AS "FALSE" THE CHARGES RAISED BY THE FMLN TO THE EFFECT THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR HINDERING THE RESUMPTION OF THE PEACE EFFORTS.</p><p>"PRESIDENT CRISTIANI HAS REITERATED TO MR. DE SOTO A TRUE WILLINGNESS TO SEEK THROUGH A SERIOUS DIALOGUE AND NOT A TACTICAL OR MUCH LESS PROPAGANDISTIC DIALOGUE THE SOLUTION TO THE ARMED CONFLICT," THE DOCUMENT POINTS OUT.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT THANKED DE SOTO'S "INTEREST AND HARD WORK" IN COMPLYING WITH THE UN SECRETARY GENERAL'S COMMITMENT OF SEEKING PEACE IN THE COUNTRY.</p></body></html>