<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1290"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1290"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="PANAMA CITY (PANAMA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1290</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1290 (BOEING)</p><p>PANAMA CITY (PANAMA), 16 MAY 90 (EL PANAMA AMERICA) -- [ARTICLE] [CARLOS VARGAS] [TEXT] THE PRESUMED SUBVERSIVE GROUP M-20 [20 DECEMBER MOVEMENT] THREATENED ON 15 MAY TO ENTER THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY AND FREE THE REFUGEES THERE. IT ALSO CALLED SEVERAL MEDIA CLAIMING THAT IT HAD KIDNAPPED A HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT AND PLACED BOMBS IN SEVERAL GOVERNMENT OFFICES.</p><p>IN VIEW OF THE TELEPHONE CALLS, THE GOVERNMENT, THROUGH FOREIGN MINISTER JULIO LINARES, HAS ANNOUNCED THAT IT HAS STRENGTHENED POLICE PROTECTION AROUND THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY IN THIS CAPITAL.</p><p>FORMER PANAMA DEFENSE FORCES OFFICERS GONZALO GONZALEZ AND HERACLIDES SUCRE, CLOSE COLLABORATORS OF OVERTHROWN GENERAL MANUEL NORIEGA, ARE REFUGEES AT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY. GONZALEZ IS ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED IN THE MURDER OF SEVERAL MILITARY OFFICERS WHO TRIED UNSUCCESSFULLY TO OVERTHROW NORIEGA ON 3 OCTOBER 1989. FOREIGN MINISTER LINARES REVEALED THAT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY HAD RECEIVED TWO TELEPHONE CALLS FROM INDIVIDUALS WHO IDENTIFIED THEMSELVES AS M-20 MEMBERS AND THREATENED TO ENTER THE EMBASSY GROUNDS TO FREE THE REFUGEES THERE.</p><p>SECURITY AROUND THE EMBASSY WAS REINFORCED, ALTHOUGH IT HAD BEEN STRENGTHENED EARLIER AFTER SEVERAL OFFICERS OF THE FORMER REGIME SOUGHT ASYLUM THERE.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE DIRECTOR OF THE "INSTITUTO AMERICA" HIGH SCHOOL DENIED THE M-20'S CLAIM THAT IT WAS HOLDING, AND THREATENED TO KILL, A STUDENT FROM THAT SCHOOL.</p><p>ALSO ON 15 MAY, PANAMANIAN AND AMERICAN POLICEMEN HAD TO ORDER THE EVACUATION OF WORKERS FROM SEVERAL GOVERNMENT OFFICES IN THE BANKING AREA OF VIA ESPANA DUE TO REPORTED BOMB THREATS FROM THE M- 20.</p><p>THE M-20 ALLEGEDLY IS A GROUP OF SUPPORTERS OF OVERTHROWN GENERAL NORIEGA WHO CLAIM RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE MARCH TERRORIST ATTACK ON THE "MY PLACE" BAR. ONE U.S. SOLDIER WAS KILLED AND 20 PANAMANIANS WERE WOUNDED IN THE ATTACK.</p><p>FOREIGN MINISTER LINARES SAID THAT HE COULD NOT CONFIRM THE EXISTENCE OF THE M-20.</p><p>A NUMBER OF DAYS AGO THE SOUTHERN COMMAND OFFERED A $10,000 REWARD TO ANY PERSON WHO PROVIDES INFORMATION LEADING TO THE ARREST OF THE MAN WHO THREW THE BOMB INTO THE AFOREMENTIONED BAR.</p><p>IT WAS ALSO LEARNED THAT THE JUDICIAL TECHNICAL POLICE ARE TRYING TO TRACE THE TELEPHONE CALLS, WHICH HAVE SCARED THE CITIZENS SOMEWHAT.</p><p>MAJOR GONZALO GONZALEZ, WHO HAS TAKEN REFUGE AT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY, WAS ALSO ACCUSED OF BEING THE MASTERMIND BEHIND THE DEATH OF YOUNG MELQUIADES RODRIGUEZ JUSTINE, A GRANDSON OF FORMER COLONEL JUSTINE.</p></body></html>