<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0787"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0787"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0787</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0787 (PRC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 17 NOV 89 (CADENA REVOLUCIONARIA NACIONAL) -- [REPORT] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] ON THE 7TH DAY OF THE OFFENSIVE, THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] HAS TAKEN A STRATEGIC TURN IN THE WAR, AS WE BEGIN TO STRUGGLE FOR POWER IN A NEW AND DEFINITE SCENARIO OF OPERATIONS IN THE CITIES, WITH THE INSURRECTIONAL PARTICIPATION OF THE PEOPLE SEEKING TO ACHIEVE PEACE AND DEMOCRACY. THE FIGHTING WAGED IN SAN SALVADOR, SAN MIGUEL, USULUTAN, ZACATECOLUCA, SANTA ANA, AND OTHER PARTS IN THE COUNTRY HAVE BEEN POSSIBLE THANKS TO THE LEADING ROLE PLAYED BY THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE SUPPORTED AND JOINED THE STRUGGLE.</p><p>THE 7 DAYS OF OUR OFFENSIVE HAVE EXPOSED THE MILITARY FASCIST DICTATORSHIP TO THE EYES OF THE WORLD. THE DICTATORSHIP HAS REMOVED ITS CIVILIAN MASK, AND IT HAS SHOWN ITS BARBARIC NATURE AS IT BOMBED CITIES AND MURDERED JESUIT PRIESTS, WHO WERE MEMBERS OF A NATIONAL CONSCIENCE THAT IS SEEKING SOCIAL CHANGES AND PEACE IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>THESE CRIMES COMMITTED BY CRISTIANI AND COLONEL PONCE [CHAIRMAN OF THE ARMED FORCES JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF] DEFINITELY ISOLATE THEM FROM THE REST OF THE WORLD, WHICH CONDEMNS THEM AND RECALLS THE LAST DAYS OF SOMOZA. IN THE MEANTIME, THE U.S. CONGRESS DISCUSSES CUTTING MILITARY AID TO THE REGIME. THE 7 DAYS OF OUR OFFENSIVE HAVE LED TO IRREVERSIBLE ACHIEVEMENTS. THE REGIME HAS BEEN DEFEATED IN THE POLITICAL FIELD AND FATALY WOUNDED IN THE MILITARY FIELD.</p><p>IN 7 DAYS OF COMBAT IN THE CAPITAL CITY, THE HIGH COMMAND LOST ITS LAST DEFENSIVE LINE. OUR FORCES ARE HITTING HARD AT THEIR TIRED HEART. VICTORY IS A FACT THAT NO ONE CAN ALTER.</p><p>IN THE OFFENSIVE, WE KILLED OR WOUNDED AN ESTIMATED 827 TROOPS AND OFFICERS. WE SEIZED 127 LONG WEAPONS, 21 MACHINEGUNS AND SUPPORT WEAPONS, AS WELL AS ABOUT 80,000 ROUNDS OF AMMUNITION OF VARIOUS CALIBERS. WE HAVE CONFIRMED REPORTS THAT WE HAVE DAMAGED 11 AIRCRAFT AND DESTROYED 27 ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIERS.</p><p>THE HUMILIATING DEFEAT OF THE HIGH COMMAND IS EVIDENT IN A DEPRESSED COL PONCE, WHO NO LONGER SPEAKS OF THE GUERRILLAS IN POCKETS ALONG THE BORDER. INSTEAD, HE SPEAKS IN FRONT OF A MAP OF THE CAPITAL CITY, POINTING OUT THE PRESENCE AND ADVANCE OF THE FMLN.</p><p>VARIOUS POLITICAL AND SOCIAL GROUPS OF EL SALVADOR HAVE INITIATED EFFORTS ON THE INTERNATIONAL LEVEL TO ACHIEVE A CONSENSUS IN ORDER TO FORM A NEW GOVERNMENT THAT WILL PUT AN END TO THE WAR AND BRING ABOUT THE DEMOCRATIZATION OF THE COUNTRY. THE FMLN LOOKS FAVORABLY ON THESE EFFORTS, AND IT HAS ALREADY ACTIVELY JOINED THESE NATIONAL SECTORS WHO ARE OPPOSED TO THE GENOCIDE BEING CARRIED OUT BY THE HIGH COMMAND IN A SUICIDAL ATTEMPT TO PRESERVE THE WAR THAT IT HAS TURNED INTO A BUSINESS DEAL.</p><p>THE GENERAL COMMAND RECOGNIZES THE HEROISM OF OUR FIGHTERS AND CALLS ON THEM TO CONTINUE ADVANCING ALONG WITH OUR REBELS IN THE FINAL CHAPTER OF THIS HISTORY.</p><p>[SIGNED] THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND, 17 NOVEMBER 1989</p></body></html>