<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:dbp="http://dbpedia.org/resource/" xmlns:this="http://dstl.github.io/muc3/dev/DEV-MUC3-0348.xhtml#" id="DEV-MUC3-0348"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0348"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0348</title></head><body vocab="http://schema.org/"><p>DEV-MUC3-0348 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 18 AUG 89 (EMISORAS CARACOL NETWORK) -- [TEXT] MEDELLIN -- <span about="dbp:Waldemar_Franklin_Quintero#Assassination" typeof="Action" property="description"><span about="dbp:Waldemar_Franklin_Quintero" typeof="Person" rev="object" resource="dbp:Waldemar_Franklin_Quintero#Assassination">ANTIOQUIA POLICE DEPARTMENT CHIEF WALDEMAR FRANKLIN QUINTERO</span> WAS MURDERED <span about="dbp:Waldemar_Franklin_Quintero#Assassination" property="startTime" content="1989-08-18">THIS MORNING</span> ON THIS CITY'S WEST SIDE.</span></p><p><span about="dbp:Waldemar_Franklin_Quintero#Assassination" property="agent">THE GUNMEN</span> FIRED ON THE POLICE COMMANDER WHEN HIS VEHICLE STOPPED FOR A RED LIGHT AT <span about="dbp:Waldemar_Franklin_Quintero#Assassination" property="location"><span>ROAD 80 AND 48TH STREET</span>, <span>NEAR MARTIN RODRIGUEZ VELODROME</span></span>, <span>A FEW BLOCKS AWAY FROM WHERE THE GOVERNOR OF ANTIOQUIA WAS MURDERED ON 4 JULY</span>.</p><p>THE AUTOMATIC WEAPONS FIRE, WHICH LASTED OVER 3 MINUTES, ALSO SERIOUSLY WOUNDED <span about="this:x1" typeof="Person" property="description">ONE OF THE AGENTS ACCOMPANYING COL QUINTERO</span>.</p><p>ACCORDING TO POLICE SOURCES, THE POLICE CHIEF'S <span about="this:v1" typeof="Thing" property="description">WHITE NISSAN PICKUP, WITH LICENSE PLATES <span>ME-7847</span></span>, WAS INTERCEPTED BY ASSASSINS' <span about="dbp:Waldemar_Franklin_Quintero#Assassination" property="instrument">GRAY MAZDA, LICENSE PLATES <span>MI-1630</span></span>.</p><p>A CRIMINAL COURT JUSTICE IDENTIFIED THE BODY OF THE POLICE COMMANDER MURDERED THIS MORNING IN SALASAN, ON THIS CITY'S WEST SIDE. THE POLICE CHIEF WAS SHOT IN THE HEAD SEVERAL TIMES.</p><p>POLICE UNITS AND SECURITY CORPS AGENTS HAVE REINFORCED STRATEGIC POINTS IN MEDELLIN AND POLICE CHECKPOINTS HAVE BEEN ESTABLISHED IN THE SEARCH FOR THE CRIMINALS.</p><p>A METROPOLITAN POLICE OFFICER HAS REPORTED THAT FOR THE PAST WEEK, POLICE CHIEF QUINTERO HAD BEEN WITHOUT A PERSONAL ESCORT. THE POLICE CHIEF HAD EXPLAINED THAT HE DID NOT WANT TO RISK OTHER POLICEMEN'S LIVES. HE DISMISSED HIS PERSONAL ESCORTS, APPOINTING THEM TO OTHER DUTIES.</p><p>THE POLICE COMMANDER'S ASSASSINATION HAS CREATED A LOT OF COMMOTION IN COLOMBIAN SOCIETY. ANTIOQUIA GOVERNOR ELENA MONTOYA HAS STATED HER CONCERN OVER THIS NEW EPISODE OF SELECTIVE VIOLENCE AND POINTED OUT THE EFFORTS THAT THE POLICE COMMANDER HAD BEEN MAKING TO PROVIDE SECURITY TO THE CITIZENS OF THIS REGION.</p><p>METROPOLITAN POLICE CHIEF ANTONIO SANCHEZ HAS REJECTED THIS NEW ACT OF VIOLENCE AGAINST THE POLICE AS AN INSTITUTION. THE MEDELLIN SECURITY COUNCIL WILL INITIATE A SPECIAL MEETING IN THE NEXT FEW MINUTES TO ANALYZE THE SITUATION.</p><p>COMMANDER QUINTERO FOUGHT DRUG-TRAFFICKING AND SUBVERSION IN ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT. FROM THE MOMENT HE BECAME ANTIOQUIA POLICE COMMANDER, QUINTERO BECAME KNOWN FOR HIS EXERCISE OF AUTHORITY AND FOR DESIGNING STRATEGIES DESIGNED TO PROVIDE PUBLIC ORDER.</p><p>ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS HE PARTICIPATED IN REGIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL MEETINGS WHERE WAYS TO FIGHT CRIME IN ANTIOQUIA WERE DISCUSSED.</p><p>LAST WEDNESDAY HE ACCOMPANIED GOVERNOR MONTOYA TO TOLIMA FOR A SECURITY MEETING TO DISCUSS THE SITUATION IN THE REGIONS. AT THAT MEETING, MEASURES WERE ESTABLISHED TO FIGHT SUBVERSION AND COMMON CRIMINALS.</p></body></html>