<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0981"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0981"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0981</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0981 (SRI)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 13 DEC 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ORTEGA] [TEXT] ....I WAS IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA AT A MEETING OF CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS. THIS MEETING WAS OF URGENT NATURE TO DISCUSS ISSUES SUCH AS EL SALVADOR, NICARAGUA, THE CONTRAS' DEMOBILIZATION, AND HUMAN RIGHTS.</p><p>AT THIS MEETING, WE HELD IN-DEPTH DISCUSSIONS OF PROBLEMS THAT ARE BEING EXPERIENCED IN THE CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES, ESPECIALLY THE SITUATION BEING EXPERIENCED IN NEIGHBORING EL SALVADOR, WHICH IS FACING AN INTERNAL CONFLICT -- MORE THAN A DECADE OF CONTINUED WAR AND INTERNAL CONFLICT. EL SALVADOR HAS BEEN SUBJECTED TO A VERY STRONG CONFRONTATION, WHICH LATELY HAS WORSENED. AS YOU ALL KNOW, THE CIVILIAN POPULATION, THE CLERGY, NUNS, AND UNION AND LABOR LEADERS HAVE BEEN VICTIMS OF THIS TRAGIC SITUATION. AT THIS MEETING, NICARAGUA STATED ITS POSITION THAT THE SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR MUST BE RESOLVED THROUGH NEGOTIATION AND NOT BY WAY OF VIOLENCE. THIS POSITION FULLY COINCIDES WITH THE POSITION THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] HAS DEFENDED. ON VARIOUS OCCASIONS THE FMLN HAS MADE PEACE PROPOSALS AND IT HAS CALLED FOR NEGOTIATED SOLUTIONS TO THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT AND FOR REAL NEGOTIATIONS.</p><p>FOLLOWING A LENGTHY AND INTENSE DISCUSSION OF THE SALVADORAN ISSUE, WE CAME TO AN AGREEMENT, NOT ONLY WITH REGARD TO GENERAL PLEASE AND STATEMENTS CONCERNING THE SITUATION IN THE NEIGHBORING CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRY, BUT ON VERY SPECIFIC ISSUES THAT COULD LEAD TO SOLUTION OF THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT. THUS, IN POINT THREE, THE FIVE PRESIDENTS DECIDED TO REQUEST THAT THE UN SECRETARY GENERAL MAKE A VERY SPECIAL PERSONAL EFFORT TO BRING ABOUT A DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN, THEREBY CONTRIBUTING TOWARD THE TALKS' SUCCESSFUL DEVELOPMENT.</p><p>NICARAGUA HAS THUS SUPPORTED THE NEGOTIATED SOLUTION THE FMLN HAS VIGOROUSLY AND CONSISTENTLY CALLED FOR, AND WITH WHICH THE GOVERNMENT HEADED BY PRESIDENT CRISTIANI ALSO CLAIMS TO AGREE. SUCH NEGOTIATION WOULD LEAD TO A DIALOGUE PROCESS THAT WOULD RESULTE IN SOLVING THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT. LIKEWISE, WE UNDERSCORED HUMAN RIGHTS IN CENTRAL AMERICA, BECAUSE THESE RIGHTS ARE SYSTEMATICALLY VIOLATED IN CERTAIN COUNTRIES. THIS HAS BEEN CLEARLY STATED AT INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS. I AM ESPECIALLY WORRIED ABOUT THE HUMAN RIGHTS SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR, WHERE SIX JESUIT PRIESTS WERE RECENTLY MURDERED, AND WHERE THE ARMY HAS BEEN ACCUSED OF EXERTING INDISCRIMINATE REPRESSION AGAINST THE PEOPLE, THROUGH AERIAL AS WELL AS ARTILLERY AND INFANTRY ATTACKS.</p><p>THIS HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUE IS WORRISOME TO THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PEOPLE, THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, AND ESPECIALLY TO NICARAGUA. WE ALSO REACHED AN AGREEMENT BY WHICH THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS INSISTED ON THE NEED FOR RESPECT OF HUMAN RIGHTS. IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESQUIPULAS II AGREEMENTS, THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS RATIFIED THEIR PLEDGES TO FULLY RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS, INCLUDING THE CIVILIAN, POLITICAL, ECONOMIC, SOCIAL, AND CULTURAL RIGHTS ESTABLISHED IN THEIR RESPECTIVE CONSTITUTIONS, AND IN SIGNED AND RATIFIED INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS.</p><p>NICARAGUA'S POSITION HAS NOT WAVERED; IT HAS MAINTAINED ITS POSITIONS THAT THE CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES ARE WILLING TO HAVE RECOGNIZED INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS [WORDS INDISTINCT] IN OUR RESPECTIVE COUNTRIES, AND HELP DEFEND HUMAN RIGHTS IN CENTRAL AMERICA. THERE ARE FORCES, CENTRAL AMERICAN ARMIES ESPECIALLY, AMONG THEM THE SALVADORAN ARMY -- WHICH HAS ORGANIZED DEATH SQUADS THAT SYSTEMATICALLY MURDER SALVADORAN PEOPLE -- WHOSE GOVERNMENTS AND PRESIDENTS ARE FACED WITH CERTAIN LIMITATIONS IN OVERCOMING THE PROBLEM OF HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS. THIS, I BELIEVE, IS WHERE THE GREATEST STRENGTH MUST BE EXERTED AND THE GREATEST EFFORT MADE TO DISBAND THE DEATH SQUADS SO THAT HUMAN RIGHTS CAN BE RESPECTED, A PEACEFUL SOLUTION CAN BE FOUND FOR ALL THE CONFLICTS IN THESE COUNTRIES, AND A WORSENING OF VIOLENCE CAN BE AVOIDED, ESPECIALLY SINCE THIS VIOLENCE IS ON THE INCREASE BECAUSE OF THE INJUSTICE THAT PREVAILS IN THESE COUNTRIES DUE TO A LACK OF EQUITY, FREEDOM, AND JUSTICE, WHICH IS AT THE ROOT OF THE PROBLEM. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>