<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0271"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0271"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0271</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0271 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 30 JUN 89 (CANAL SEIS TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI HAS BLAMED FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] GUERRILLAS FOR THE MURDER OF POLITICAL ANALYST EDGAR CHACON AND HAS STRESSED THAT, DESPITE THESE ACTIONS, HE IS UNDETERRED FROM HIS INTENTION TO SIT DOWN AND TALK WITH THE REBELS TO PUT AN END TO THE CONFLICT.</p><p>PRESIDENT CRISTIANI SAID THAT HIS GOVERNMENT WOULD NOT BE BLACKMAILED BY THE WAVE OF VIOLENCE UNLEASHED BY THE FMLN. THE PRESIDENT SAID THAT THESE ACTIONS ONLY SERVE TO CONFIRM THE WEAKNESS OF THE FMLN, WHICH SEEKS POWER THROUGH VIOLENCE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CRISTIANI] THE FMLN'S POWERLESSNESS AND INABILITY TO DO BATTLE USING IDEAS RATHER THAN VIOLENCE BECAME EVIDENT AGAIN TODAY. THE FMLN HAS AGAIN TRIED TO SILENCE THE VOICE OF ANOTHER SALVADORAN WHO FOUGHT WITH WORDS AND THOUGHTS. IN EVERY SENSE, THIS HAS BEEN A COWARDLY ACT AND IT CAN ONLY BE DESCRIBED AS THAT. IT IS THE WORK OF SICK MINDS. I BELIEVE THAT THIS IS WHAT THE FMLN HAS PROVEN TO BE -- A GROUP OF SICK PEOPLE WHO DO NOT UNDERSTAND THE CLAMOR OF A PEOPLE WHO WISH TO TALK RATHER THAN USE VIOLENCE, A PEOPLE WHO WANT PEACE IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>WE ARE ON THE SIDE OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, AND THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WANT US TO DO WHAT WE CAN TO ACHIEVE PEACE IN EL SALVADOR. BECAUSE WE WISH TO DO WHAT THE PEOPLE WANT, WE WILL ALWAYS HAVE THE DOORS OPEN IN THE HOPE OF ACHIEVING PEACE IN OUR HOMELAND. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>