<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0949"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0949"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0949</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0949 (SRI)</p><p>LIMA, 7 DEC 89 (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [EXCERPTS] PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA ANNOUNCED THAT THE BORDERS WILL BE REOPENED. HE SAID THAT THE RESULTS OF THE MEASURES ADOPTED 15 DAYS AGO ARE POSITIVE. THE PRESIDENT CALLED ON ALL BUSINESSMEN AND INDUSTRIALISTS NOT TO SPECULATE ON PRICES. HE ALSO REITERATED HIS SUPPORT FOR ECONOMY AND FINANCE MINISTER CESAR VASQUEZ BAZAN, WHO HE SAID IS MAKING GREAT EFFORTS TO FACE THE PERUVIAN ECONOMIC SITUATION. GARCIA MADE THESE STATEMENTS AFTER A MEETING WITH THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] THE BORDER CLOSURE MEASURE EXPIRES TODAY. WILL IT BE EXTENDED?</p><p>[GARCIA] NO, THE BORDERS WERE NEVER CLOSED. WE ONLY ESTABLISHED SOME RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF TRANSIT PERMITS IN TACNA TO PREVENT AN INCREASE OF SMUGGLING BEFORE THE YEAR-END FESTIVITIES. THE 15-DAY TERM OF THAT MEASURE HAS EXPIRED, AND IT WILL NOT BE EXTENDED.</p><p>[REPORTER] APPARENTLY, THAT MEASURE HAS NOT HAD GOOD RESULTS.</p><p>[GARCIA] I THINK THAT IN GENERAL IT HAS YIELDED POSITIVE RESULTS BECAUSE SMUGGLING HAS PROBABLY DECREASED SOMEWHAT. AS YOU KNOW, A FEW YEARS AGO CHILE ESTABLISHED THE IQUIQUE FREE ZONE WHERE PRODUCTS ARE SOLD TO PERU AND BOLIVIA. THUS A STABLE MARKET OF HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE WHICH DAILY PASS THOROUGH THE TACNA BORDER WITH SMALL PACKAGES HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED.</p><p>WE SIMPLY RESTRICTED THE PERMITS THEY USE TO BRING IN A TAPE RECORDER OR LASER DISC PLAYERS. I UNDERSTAND THAT SMUGGLING DECREASED FOR A FEW DAYS. HOWEVER, THAT MERCHANDISE ENTERED THE COUNTRY BY OTHER MEANS. WE CANNOT IMPOSE TOO MANY RESTRICTIONS, BUT WE CAN ASK THE CUSTOMS OFFICE AND THE POLICE TO INCREASE THEIR EFFORTS TO CONTROL EXCESSIVE SMUGGLING INTO THE COUNTRY.</p><p>[REPORTER] DO YOU THINK THAT THE FREE-MARKET DOLLAR WILL DROP BY JANUARY?</p><p>[GARCIA] I AM SURE IT WILL. LAST YEAR, LIKE NOW, THE FREE- MARKET DOLLAR EXCHANGE RATE INCREASED SHARPLY BECAUSE COMPANIES ARE PAYING YEAR-END BONUSES AND THEY ARE CONVERTING THEIR PROFITS INTO DOLLARS. PEOPLE ARE TAKING HOLIDAY TRIPS AND BUYING MORE GOODS AND HOME APPLIANCES. THEREFORE, THE DOLLAR DEMAND AND PRICES HAVE INCREASED.</p><p>LAST YEAR, WHEN THE MUC [SINGLE EXCHANGE MARKET] DOLLAR EXCHANGE RATE WAS AT 500 INTIS TO A DOLLAR, THE FREE-MARKET DOLLAR CLIMBED TO 2,000 INTIS. LATER IT DROPPED TO 1,000 INTIS IN JANUARY. I THINK THAT THE SAME THING WILL HAPPEN THIS YEAR. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>[REPORTER] THERE HAVE BEEN SOME RUMORS IN THE PAST FEW DAYS THAT THE ECONOMY MINISTER IS ABOUT TO RESIGN OR IS BEING PRESSURED TO RESIGN. IS THIS TRUE?</p><p>[GARCIA] THE ONLY PERSON WHO COULD PRESSURE HIM IS THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC, AND I CAN TELL YOU THAT I AM NOT PRESSURING HIM. WE ACKNOWLEDGE THE CURRENT DIFFICULTIES OF THE PERUVIAN ECONOMY AS WELL AS THE EFFORTS OF THE ECONOMY MINISTER. I EXPRESS MY RECOGNITION OF AND SUPPORT FOR THE ECONOMY MINISTER BECAUSE HE IS YOUNG, WELL-INTENTIONED, AND VERY HONEST; HE HAS PROGRESSIVE IDEAS. HE IS MAKING EVERY EFFORT POSSIBLE TO STABILIZE THE ECONOMY AS WELL AS POSSIBLE, AND HE SPONSORED A DEMOCRATIC TRANSITION AFTER THE ELECTIONS.</p><p>[REPORTER] TODAY DID THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS DISCUSS A WAGE INCREASE FOR THIS MONTH?</p><p>[GARCIA] THAT POINT MUST BE DEFINED BY THE ECONOMY AND LABOR MINISTERS. TODAY, IN ADDITION TO THE BORDER ISSUE, WE DISCUSSED A SUBJECT WE HAD TALKED ABOUT A FEW WEEKS AGO.</p><p>ON THAT OCCASION I LISTENED TO A REPORT FROM THE SO-CALLED COMMANDER HUAIHUACU. HE IS CHIEF OF SOME 85 PEASANT COMMUNITIES ALONG THE APURIMAC RIVER WHICH HAVE REBELLED AGAINST SHINING PATH CONTROL. THE APURIMAC RIVER SEPARATES THE AYACUCHO AND CUSCO DEPARTMENTS, AND THESE PEASANTS LIVE IN AN AREA CALLED OREJA DE PERRO IN LA MAR PROVINCE. THEY HAVE CARRIED OUT A DEMOCRATIC UPRISING AND ORGANIZED THEMSELVES TO KEEP SHINING PATH FROM ENTERING THEIR COMMUNITIES.</p><p>THIS SO-CALLED COMMANDER HUAIHUACU, WHO IS A MAN OF ACTION, HAS ORGANIZED APPROXIMATELY 85 COMMUNITIES ON THE BANKS OF THE APURIMAC RIVER, IN AYACUCHO PROVINCE OF LA MAR AND THE CUSCO DISTRICT OF CHARATE. HUAIHUACU HAS COME TO LIMA SEEKING SUPPORT.</p><p>WE HAVE DECIDED WITH THE DEFENSE MINISTRY TO GO TOMORROW TO RINCONADA BAJA AREA IN LA MAR PROVINCE, SHINING PATH'S PRIMARY AREA OF ACTIVITY FOR 10 YEARS. THERE I WILL DEDICATE A RADIO STATION TO BE CALLED RADIO DEMOCRACIA. ITS AIM WILL BE TO BROADCAST NEWS AND DEMOCRATIC AND PATRIOTIC MESSAGES FROM THAT AREA WHICH IS A CENTER OF PEASANT RESISTANCE AGAINST TERRORISM.</p><p>WE WILL ARRIVE THERE TOMORROW AND TALK WITH THE PEASANT LEADERS WHO FOR YEARS HAVE FOUGHT SHINING PATH TOGETHER WITH OUR NAVY INFANTRY UNITS STATIONED IN LUISIANA AND SAN FRANCISCO. [PASSAGE OMITTED] [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>