<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0204"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0204"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0204</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0204 (ADS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 10 MAY 89 (RADIO CADENA SONORA) -- [INTERVIEW WITH COLONEL MAURICIO ERNESTO VARGAS, COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF THE 3D INFANTRY BRIGADE IN SAN MIGUEL, BY STATION CORRESPONDENT SORTO] [TEXT] CONCERNING A LAST-MINUTE REPORT WHICH INTERNATIONAL NEWS AGENCIES ARE ATTRIBUTING TO A CLANDESTINE RADIO VENCEREMOS ANNOUNCEMENT OF AN OPERATION CONCERNING ATTACKS AGAINST SEVERAL MILITARY GARRISONS IN VARIOUS PARTS OF THE COUNTRY, WE INTERVIEWED COLONEL MAURICIO ERNESTO VARGAS, COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF THE 3D INFANTRY BRIGADE STATIONED IN SAN MIGUEL. WE CONTACTED HIM BY TELEPHONE, AS FOLLOWS:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [SORTO] COLONEL, IS IT TRUE THIS IS PART OF A REGIONAL OR NATIONAL OPERATION TO ATTACK THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE?</p><p>[VARGAS] I DO NOT KNOW IF THIS IS PART OF A REGIONAL OR NATIONAL OPERATION. ALL I KNOW IS THAT THESE ARE TREACHEROUS, COWARDLY ACTIONS, BECAUSE THEY ARE AFRAID OF CONFRONTING THE SOLDIERS, THE 3D INFANTRY BRIGADE MILITARY UNITS. IN SAN MIGUEL, THERE WERE FIVE EXPLOSIONS IN OPEN AREAS ABOUT 2 TO 3 KM APART. THERE WERE NO CASUALTIES OR MATERIAL DAMAGE INFLICTED ON THE 3D INFANTRY BRIGADE OR ITS INSTALLATIONS. THEY HIT SOME FUEL TANKS FILLED WITH ABOUT 3,000 GALLONS OF GASOLINE, WHICH STARTED A FIRE. HOWEVER, THE FIRES WERE IN OPEN AREAS, SO THERE HAVE BEEN NO CASUALTIES OR MATERIAL DAMAGE TO THE INSTALLATIONS.</p><p>[SORTO] THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] CLAIMS IT SEIZED EL SALITRE ESTATE AND, FROM THERE, ATTACKED THE 3D INFANTRY BRIGADE.</p><p>[VARGAS] EL SALITRE ESTATE WAS NOT OCCUPIED. AN OLD SHACK ON THE ESTATE WAS SET ABLAZE, BUT THE FIRE DEPARTMENT CONTROLLED THE FIRE. I THINK THESE ARE THE GREAT REVOLUTIONARY VICTORIES THE FMLN TALKS ABOUT: ATTACKS AGAINST FIXED INSTALLATIONS THAT CONTAIN NO MILITARY UNITS, WHERE NOT EVEN PEASANTS ARE SLEEPING AT THE TIME. I BELIEVE THIS IS WHERE THE FMLN SAYS IT FIGHTS HEROICALLY FOR 4 HOURS TO BURN SEVEN PATCHES OF CROPS AND HOW IT CLAIMS IT HEROICALLY FIGHTS TO DOWN POWER TOWERS, WHICH ARE UNMOVING OBJECTS. THESE ARE THE ONLY GREAT ACTIONS IT CARRIES OUT, BUT THESE ACTIONS ARE AGAINST FIXED TARGETS THAT CANNOT MOVE. I REPEAT, THESE ARE COWARDLY ACTIONS THAT DO NOT CONFRONT THE SOLDIERS WHO REPRESENT THE MILITARY ABILITIES OF THE GOVERNMENT AND THE COUNTRY.</p><p>[SORTO] DO YOU HAVE ANY UNITS COMBING THE AREA?</p><p>[VARGAS] YES, DEFINITELY, WE HAVE MEN IN THE AREA. THE TRUTH IS THAT AT 0200 TODAY, UNITS WERE BEING MOBILIZED. AS I SAID, THESE ARE COWARDLY ACTIONS, CARRIED OUT IN THE DARK, AND THE FMLN FLEES WHEN IT SEES OUR WELL-TRAINED MEN IN MILITARY UNIFORM. THAT IS ALL I HAVE TO SAY.</p><p>[SORTO] YOU HAVE PERMANENT GUARDS FOR SAN MIGUEL. SOME OF THE MARKET VENDORS TOLD US FOR THE FIRST TIME, NOT A SINGLE SHOT WAS HEARD.</p><p>[VARGAS] YES, THAT IS RIGHT. AS I SAID, THERE HAVE NOT BEEN ANY ATTACKS OR HARASSMENT, JUST FIVE EXPLOSIVE DEVICES, WHICH DOES NOT REPRESENT ANY CHANGES IN THE CORRELATION OF MILITARY FORCES. THE PEOPLE OF SAN MIGUEL SHOULD BE CALM; WE WILL PROVIDE THEM WITH SECURITY. THE PEOPLE OF THE EASTERN AREA OF THE COUNTRY SHOULD BE CALM, BECAUSE WE WILL INCREASE OUR ABILITIES AND EFFORTS TO PROVIDE THEM WITH ALL THE SECURITY POSSIBLE. THE FMLN WILL HAVE TO PAY FOR BEING SO AUDACIOUS.</p><p>[SORTO] THE FMLN SAID IT WAS FIGHTING IN BERLIN AND ALEGRIA.</p><p>[VARGAS] WE HAVE NO KNOWLEDGE OF ANY ACTION IN BERLIN AND ALEGRIA. WE HAVE REPORTS THAT IN SAN ILDEFONSO, SAN VICENTE DEPARTMENT -- SOUTH OF CABANAS -- THERE WERE PROBLEMS BECAUSE THE NATIONAL GUARD -- WHICH WE SUPPORT THROUGHOUT THE NATIONAL TERRITORY -- REPORTED SOME CATAPULTS HAD BEEN FIRED. HOWEVER, NOTHING ELSE HAPPENED, AND I HAVE NO REPORTS OF ANY ACTION IN OTHER PLACES.</p><p>[SORTO] TODAY IS MOTHER'S DAY.</p><p>[VARGAS] YES, DEFINITELY, GREETINGS TO ALL MOTHERS: HAVE FAITH AND HOPE THAT YOUR SONS ARE HERE -- FROM THE GENERAL TO THE LAST SOLDIER -- AND THEY LOVE YOU VERY MUCH AND ARE WORKING FOR YOU, SO YOU WILL HAVE THE PEACE AND TRANQUILITY YOU NEED AS MOTHERS TO GENERATE LOVE AND COURAGE FOR EACH OF YOUR SONS. ON BEHALF OF ALL YOUR SONS, THE SOLDIERS, TO ALL MOTHERS OF THE EASTERN AREA AND OF EL SALVADOR: RECEIVE LOVE AND KISSES. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>