<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1202"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1202"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1202</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1202 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 2 APR 90 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [STATEMENT] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] PRESIDENTS DANIEL ORTEGA SAAVEDRA, OSCAR ARIAS SANCHEZ, RAFAEL LEONARDO CALLEJAS, MARCO VINICIO CEREZO AREVELO, ALFREDO CRISTIANI:</p><p>IN EL SALVADOR A SERIOUS DIALOGUE-NEGOTIATION PROCESS HAS BEGUN THANKS TO THE MEDIATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS THROUGH ITS SECRETARY GENERAL MR. JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR. THIS IMPLIES THAT ANY PEACE FORMULA MUST TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THIS NEGOTIATION PROCESS TO ENSURE THAT IT IS BASED ON OUR PARTICULAR REALITY AND THE GUARANTEES OFFERED BY THIS INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION.</p><p>WE BELIEVE THAT THE NEGOTIATION'S MAIN OBJECTIVE SHOULD BE THE COUNTRY'S DEMOCRATIZATION, BECAUSE WHILE PEACEFUL CENTRAL AMERICAN AND WORLD DEVELOPMENTS ARE MARKED BY A CONSOLIDATION OF DEMOCRACY, EL SALVADOR IS QUITE FAR FROM EXPERIENCING THIS.</p><p>THE ARMY HOLDS SOCIETY'S REAL POWER. THIS PREVENTS JUSTICE BEING APPLIED IN THE HORRENDOUS ASSASSINATIONS OF MONSIGNOR ROMERO, JESUIT PRIESTS, FENASTRAS [SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION] MEMBERS, AND DR. HECTOR OQUELI. UNDER SUCH CONDITIONS, IMPUNITY CONTINUES TO BE INSTITUTIONALIZED AND IT IS NOT POSSIBLE TO ENFORCE RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS.</p><p>DAILY LIFE IS MARKED BY REPRESSION AGAINST THE POPULAR MOVEMENT AN FREQUENT MURDERS, WHILE ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] APPLIES PRESSURES AND FORCES, BY VARIOUS MEANS, THE RESTRICTION OF INFORMATION TO THE MEDIA BY LIMITING FREEDOM OF SPEECH.</p><p>IT IS THEREFORE EVIDENT THAT EL SALVADOR IS THE COUNTRY THAT HAS FAILED TO COMPLY WITH THE MAIN GOALS OF ESQUIPULAS II -- THE ACHIEVEMENT OF NATIONAL RECONCILIATION, DEMOCRATIZATION, AND A NEGOTIATED POLITICAL SOLUTION.</p><p>THIS SITUATION, WHICH IS ACCOMPANIED BY A PERMANENT STATE OF SIEGE IS WORSENED BY GREAT RESTRICTIONS ON THE POLITICAL SYSTEM THAT PREVENT THE DEVELOPMENT OF CIVILIAN SOCIETY.</p><p>IT SUFFICES TO MENTION THE CASE OF THE ELECTORAL SYSTEM: IN NICARAGUA, A COUNTRY WITH HALF OF OUR COUNTRY'S POPULATION, THE SUPREME ELECTORAL COUNCIL REGISTERED 1.9 MILLION CITIZENS IN ONLY FOUR SUNDAYS; IN EL SALVADOR, IN EIGHT YEARS, THE ELECTORAL REGISTRY REGISTERED 1.6 MILLION CITIZENS FOR THE RECENT ELECTIONS AND ONLY 1 MILLION ACTUALLY VOTED. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>