<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1086"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1086"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1086</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1086 (UNISYS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 2 FEB 90 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN)] [TEXT] THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] HEREBY NOTIFIES THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>1. WE SEE AS POSITIVE THAT MR CRISTIANI HAS ACCEPTED UN SECRETARY GENERAL JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR'S PARTICIPATION IN THE NEGOTIATION PROCESS IN EL SALVADOR. WE FEEL THAT THE MEDIATION OF THE UN SECRETARY GENERAL AND THE FRAMEWORK OF THAT INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION SERIOUSLY COMMIT BOTH PARTIES TO NEGOTIATION AND OFFER TRUE POSSIBILITIES SO THAT THE PROCESS WILL LEAD TOWARD A SOLUTION THAT WILL PUT AN END TO THE WAR IN OUR COUNTRY.</p><p>2. IN VIEW OF THESE POSSIBILITIES, IT IS HIGHLY NEGATIVE THAT THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION HAS ANNOUNCED THAT THE ECONOMIC AND MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO THE GOVERNMENT WILL BE INCREASED IN THE FORTHCOMING FISCAL PERIODS. IF THIS DECISION IS RATIFIED BY THE U.S. CONGRESS, IT WOULD MEAN A DEFINITE DETERMINATION TO PROLONG THE WAR AND THE FAILURE OF THE POSSIBILITY THAT COULD LEAD TO THE NEGOTIATED SOLUTION OF THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT. THE ASSISTANCE STRENGTHENS THE EXTREMISTS. THE POLITICAL PRESSURE MAKES IT NECESSARY TO TAKE POLITICAL ACTIONS AND STRENGTHENS THE NEGOTIATED SOLUTION.</p><p>3. THE ARMY CONTINUES TO CARRY OUT PERMANENT MILITARY OFFENSIVES AND REPRESSION. THERE CONTINUE TO BE A STATE OF SIEGE, MURDERS, ARRESTS, AND PERSECUTION AGAINST PEOPLE'S AND RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS; THE PRESS CONTINUES TO BE CONTROLLED; AND INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS CONTINUE TO BE VIOLATED AS THE EVACUATION OF FMLN WAR CRIPPLES IS NOT ALLOWED.</p><p>COL PONCE OPENLY PROCLAIMS HIS "VICTORY AND HAMMER" OFFENSIVE AGAINST FMLN POSITIONS. THIS IS NOT COMPATIBLE, AS THE GOVERNMENT WANTS THE FMLN TO UNILATERALLY SUSPEND OPERATIONS. AS LONG AS THERE ARE REPRESSION AND LARGE MILITARY OFFENSIVES, AND A CEASE-FIRE IS NOT AGREED UPON BY THE PARTIES, WE ARE OBLIGED TO REMAIN AT WAR AND MAKE OFFENSIVE USE OF OUR MILITARY FORCE IN ANY PART OF THE NATION TO ACHIEVE SERIOUS NEGOTIATION THAT WILL FIND A JUST SOLUTION TO THE WAR.</p><p>[SIGNED] THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND</p><p>[DATED] 2 FEBURARY 1990, EL SALVADOR</p></body></html>