<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0944"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0944"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0944</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0944 (SRI)</p><p>BOGOTA, 7 DEC 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO HAS BROUGHT FORWARD HIS RETURN TO THE COUNTRY BY 10 HOURS, MEANING HE HAS CANCELLED SOME EVENTS HE WAS SCHEDULED TO ATTEND IN TOKYO, AND WILL RETURN TO THE COUNTRY AROUND NOON ON 9 DECEMBER. HE WAS INITIALLY SCHEDULED TO RETURN AROUND MIDNIGHT ON SATURDAY.</p><p>PRESIDENT BARCO TOLD THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TODAY THAT IN NO WAY WILL COLOMBIA ACCEPT THE INTERVENTION OF FOREIGN TROOPS TO FIGHT TERRORISM, VIOLENCE, AND ORGANIZED CRIME. DURING A NEWS CONFERENCE WITH JAPANESE AND FOREIGN MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES IN TOKYO, PRESIDENT BARCO ALSO SAID THAT THE LIBERAL PARTY WILL PROBABLY WIN THE 1990 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS BECAUSE IT HAS CAPABLE PEOPLE AND IT IS THE MAJORITY PARTY. HE ALSO REFERRED TO A MID-AIR PLANE EXPLOSION -- A TERRORIST ACTION, IN HIS WORDS -- AND THE ATTACK PERPETRATED AGAINST THE DAS [ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY] HEADQUARTERS IN BOGOTA WITH APPROXIMATELY 500 KG OF EXPLOSIVES.</p><p>PRESIDENT BARCO WILL RETURN TO BOGOTA AT 0900 ON 9 DECEMBER. HE WILL DEPART FROM NARITA AIRPORT, LOCATED 2 HOURS FROM TOKYO, [WORDS INDISTINCT] MEETING WITH JAPANESE INVESTORS AND POSSIBLE BUYERS OF COLOMBIAN COFFEE. THE EVENT WAS ORGANIZED BY THE COLOMBIAN COFFEE GROWERS ASSOCIATION AND THE GRAN COLOMBIAN MERCHANT FLEET'S REPRESENTATIVES IN THE FAR EAST.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [BARCO] APPROXIMATELY 2 WEEKS AGO AN AIRPLANE EXPLODED WHEN TAKING OFF FROM BOGOTA, AND EXPERTS WHO CAME FROM MANY PARTS OF THE WORLD HAVE DISCOVERED THAT IT WAS CAUSED BY A BOMB PLACED ON BOARD RATHER THAN A PROBLEM OF PRESSURIZATION.</p><p>THE OTHER CASE IS THE ATTACK WHICH WAS PERPETRATED LAST NIGHT, 2 NIGHTS AGO, AGAINST THE INTELLIGENCE HEADQUARTERS OF THE NATIONAL POLICE. YOU HAVE READ OR REPORTED THAT A LARGE AMOUNT... [CHANGES THOUGHT] ABOUT 500 KG OF DYNAMITE PLACED IN A TRUCK EXPLODED AND CAUSED THE COLLAPSE OR CONSIDERABLE DAMAGE OF THE GENERAL HEADQUARTERS OF THE COLOMBIAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICES.</p><p>THE TERRORIST ATTACK WAS PERPETRATED AGAINST THE OFFICES OF THE DAS, WHICH IS -- AS I SAID BEFORE -- WHERE THE MOST IMPORTANT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES AGAINST ORGANIZED CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING ARE CARRIED OUT. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>