<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0619"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0619"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-31"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0619</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0619 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 31 OCT 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [REPORT] [RENE HURTADO] [TEXT] THERE WAS A STRONG EXPLOSION EARLY THIS MORNING. A BOMB WENT OFF AT THE BUILDING OF THE "MSGR OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO" COMMITTEE OF MOTHERS, RELATIVES OF POLITICAL PRISONERS, MISSING, AND MURDERED PEOPLE IN EL SALVADOR, LOCATED ON NORTH SECOND AVENUE BETWEEN 15TH AND EAST 17TH STREETS. THE EXPLOSION DID EXTENSIVE DAMAGE TO THIS OFFICE, AND THREE PERSONS WERE SERIOUSLY INJURED, INCLUDING U.S. CITIZEN BRENDA HOOVARIT, 41. ALSO INJURED WERE LUCIO GUTIERREZ AND 4-MONTH-OLD ELMER ANTONIO ALVARENGA, SON OF ARGENTINA ALVARENGA. THEY WERE TAKEN TO A HOSPITAL BY THE RED CROSS.</p><p>THE EXPLOSIVE DEVICE, WHICH WENT OFF AT 0230 [0830 GMT], DAMAGED THE COMMITTEE'S BUILDING. RED CROSS WORKERS RUSHSED TO THE SCENE TO TAKE THE INJURED TO THE HOSPITAL. THE BLAST WAS HEARD ALL OVER SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>I REPEAT: U.S. CITIZEN BRANDA HOOVARIT, LUCIO GUTIERREZ, AND ELMER ALVARENGA WERE INJURED. THEY WERE TAKEN TO DIFFERENT HOSPITALS BY THE RED CROSS BECAUSE THEY SUSTAINED SERIOUS INJURIES DUE TO THE INTENSITY OF THE EXPLOSION, WHICH DESTROYED THE COMMITTEE'S OFFICES.</p></body></html>