<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0593"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0593"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0593</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0593 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 20 OCT 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] AUTHORITIES CONTINUE TO DEAL SUCCESSFUL BLOWS AGAINST TERRORISM. CAPTURED TODAY WERE TWO [AS HEARD] EXTRADITABLES AND ONE BOMB PLANTER, WHICH IS WHAT PEOPLE HERE ARE CALLING THESE TERRORISTS.</p><p>THE TERRORIST, WHO GIVES HIS NAME AS GONZALO PINZON LAGOS, 24, WAS CAPTURED BY DIJIN [DIRECTORATE OF JUDICIAL POLICE AND INVESTIGATIONS]. HE CONFESSED TO PARTICIPATING IN BOMB ATTACKS EARLY THIS MONTH AGAINST THE ENERGY TOWERS LOCATED AT ROJAS AVENUE AND 75TH STREET AND IN CAFAN SARSAMORA. A TERRORIST WORKING FOR THE JOHN BOLANOS LOPEZ GANG WAS KILLED IN THIS ATTACK. RICARDO BOLANOS RODRIGUEZ, THE GANG LEADER'S FATHER, WAS ALSO ARRESTED. HE IS ACCUSED OF RECRUITING TERRORISTS. THIS MORNING, HE WAS GOING TO PUT A BOMB AT THE AZULEJOS CORONA STORE, ALONG THE MEDELLIN SPEEDWAY.</p><p>AN EXTRADITABLE WAS CAPTURED BY THE POLICE WHILE HE WAS IN THE CERREJON INSTALLATIONS, IN THE TOWN OF MAICAO, GUAJIRA INTENDANCY. HE COMES FROM BARRANQUILLA AND IS IDENTIFIED AS ROBERT JAMIS SOCOLOGUISQUI SALA. THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA IS REQUESTING HIS EXTRADITION, BUT MEANWHILE HE WILL REMAIN AT DIJIN INSTALLATIONS.</p></body></html>