<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0060"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0060"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-01-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0060</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0060 (NOSC)</p><p>LIMA, 25 JAN 89 (TELAM-ANSA) -- [TEXT] THE PRO-MAOIST SHINING PATH TERRORIST ORGANIZATION PERPETRATED ONE OF ITS MOST SERIOUS ATTACKS IN RECENT MEMORY IN THE TOWN OF ANDAHUA, LOCATED IN THE SOUTHERN AREQUIPA DEPARTMENT. DURING THIS ATTACK, THE TERRORISTS SET MOST OF THE CITY'S PUBLIC BUILDINGS ON FIRE. THEY FAILED, HOWEVER, TO BRING LOCAL GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS BEFORE THEIR "KANGAROO COURT" BECAUSE THE OFFICIALS WERE ALERTED AND FLED BEFORE THE TERRORISTS ARRIVED.</p><p>POLICE AUTHORITIES REPORTED TODAY IN LIMA THAT YESTERDAY HEAVILY-ARMED SHINING PATH TERRORISTS OVERPOWERED ANDAHUA RESIDENTS AND BURNED THE OFFICES OF THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENTERPRISE, THE AGRARIAN BANK, THE NATIONAL BANK, AND HEALTH MINISTRY OFFICES. ALTHOUGH THE BUILDINGS WERE BURNED TO THE GROUND, NO ONE WAS INJURED.</p><p>THE TERRORISTS ATTEMPTED TO BRING THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES BEFORE A KANGAROO COURT TO IMPLEMENT WHAT THEY CALL "PEOPLE'S JUSTICE," THE PUBLIC EXECUTION OF THESE AUTHORITIES IN THE PRESENCE OF THE PEOPLE. THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES, HOWEVER, HAD ALREADY FLED.</p><p>BEFORE LEAVING THE CITY, THE TERRORISTS BLOCKED AND DESTROYED SEVERAL SEGMENTS OF THE ROAD LINKING ANDAHUA WITH AREQUIPA AND OTHER ADJACENT TOWNS IN ORDER TO PREVENT LOCAL RESIDENTS FROM FOLLOWING THEM.</p></body></html>