<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0974"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0974"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0974</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0974 (SRI)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 DEC 89 (RADIO CADENA CUSCATLAN) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY UNIDENTIFIED MODERATOR AND REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CRISTIANI, IN PROGRESS] ... HE [ORTEGA] WAS FACING A FACT HE COULD NO LONGER HIDE: HE IS THE ONE WHO IS SPREADING ARMED REVOLUTIONS IN CENTRAL AMERICA AND TRYING TO HAMPER DEMOCRATIC PROCESSES IN THE REGION. ONCE MORE HE HAS BEEN CAUGHT NOT HONORING THE COMMITMENTS AGREED ON IN TELA, BUT RATHER VIOLATING THESE COMMITMENTS. ON THIS OCCASION HE HAS BEEN LEFT WITH NO POSSIBLE DEFENSE.</p><p>THEREFORE, IN OUR OPINION, HE HAS NO OPTION OTHER THAN TO ACCEPT THE REALITY OF WHAT IS HAPPENING IN CENTRAL AMERICA, OR SEE HIMSELF TOTALLY ISOLATED AMID A PEACE PLAN THAT HAS INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT. THIS SITUATION WOULD CAUSE HIM MANY PROBLEMS AND HEADACHES IN POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC MATTERS. HE COULD DO NOTHING BUT ACCEPT THE REALITY. HE COULD NO LONGER DEFEND THE POSITION THAT THE NICARAGUAN RESISTANCE WAS SOMETHING SPECIAL AND THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] WAS SOMETHING ELSE AND WAS JUSTIFIABLE. IT IS NOW CLEAR THAT HE HAS RUN OUT OF TRICKS AND HAS HAD TO ACCEPT WHAT ALL THE REMAINING FOUR CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS ARE AWARE OF AND DEFENDED AT THE COSTA RICAN SUMMIT. NOW, IF IN THEIR STRATEGY THEY SOLD OUT THE FMLN, AS HAS BEEN MENTIONED HERE, THEY WILL HAVE TO GIVE SOME EXPLANATIONS TO THEIR FMLN FRIENDS. THAT IS A PROBLEM BETWEEN HIM AND THE FMLN.</p><p>WHAT SHOULD BE OF INTEREST TO US IS THAT THE FMLN'S VIOLENT AND TERRORIST ACTIONS ARE NO LONGER JUSTIFIED FROM ANY POINT OF VIEW. THIS HAS BEEN CLEARLY AND STRONGLY EMPHASIZED IN THE COSTA RICAN AGREEMENT. IN THIS REGARD, I REPEAT THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT IS WILLING TO RESUME THE DIALOGUE PROCESS FROM WHICH THE FMLN UNILATERALLY WITHDREW. HOWEVER, AT THIS TIME IT IS NECESSARY FOR THE FMLN TO OPENLY PROMISE -- AND THIS IS STRONGLY DEMANDED BY THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS, INCLUDING THE NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT -- IT WILL CEASE TERRORIST ACTIONS, ESPECIALLY THOSE AFFECTING CIVILIANS. OBVIOUSLY A TOTAL DEMOBILIZATION AND RETURN TO THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS -- WITH THE GUARANTEES THAT MUST BE GIVEN TO THE FMLN MEMBERS -- WILL BE THE RESULT OF THE DIALOGUE PROCESS. THIS IS HOW WE UNDERSTAND AND VIEW THIS MATTER. THE DEMOBILIZATION OF THE NICARAGUAN RESISTANCE SHALL BE THE RESULT OF A CONVINCING EFFORT BY THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT, WHICH SHOULD PROVIDE THE NECESSARY GUARANTEES. IN THE SAME DOCUMENT, THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT HAS UNILATERALLY VOWED TO ENSURE THOSE GUARANTEES.</p><p>IT IS ALSO IMPORTANT TO POINT OUT THAT THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS ASKED THE UNITED NATIONS TO ALSO JOIN THE CIAV [INTERNATIONAL COMMISSION OF SUPPORT AND VERIFICATION], SO THE CIAV BEGINS AND IMPLEMENTS THE PROCESS TO DEMOBILIZE THE FMLN. THIS IS BASICALLY THE DESIRE OF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS. IF THE FMLN WANTS TO GAIN POLITICAL ADVANTAGES, IT SHOULD PURSUE THIS WITHIN THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS BECAUSE IT CAN NO LONGER BE JUSTIFIED AND HAS NEVER BEEN JUSTIFIED. HOWEVER, TODAY WE STRONGLY TELL THE FMLN THAT NO LONGER IS THERE ANY ROOM IN CENTRAL AMERICA, AND ESPECIALLY IN EL SALVADOR, FOR VIOLENT AND TERRORIST ACTIONS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>