<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1144"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1144"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1144</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1144 (UNISYS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY MODERATOR AND REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [MODERATOR] MARIA DE DOLORES ARJAC.</p><p>[ARJAC] IT IS SAID THAT AID TO EL SALVADOR WAS STOPPED [WORD INDISTINCT] FOR AID TO PANAMA. COULD IT NOT HAPPEN -- WITH MRS. CHAMORRA'S VICTORY -- THAT READJUSTMENTS ARE MADE IN AID TO SEVERAL CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES, INCLUDING EL SALVADOR? IN THIS RESPECT, THE FRG GOVERNMENT HAS ALREADY RENEWED AID TO EL SALVADOR, BUT NOT TO OTHER COUNTRIES. HOW DO YOU SEE THIS SITUATION?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] WELL, THIS COULD WELL HAPPEN, AS, OBVIOUSLY, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT AND THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ARE FREE TO GIVE AID TO WHATEVER COUNTRY THEY BELIEVE IT IS ADVISABLE TO DO SO. CERTAINLY THERE IS A NEW SITUATION, AND MANY HAVE EXPRESSED TODAY THAT THEY ARE WILLING TO HELP NICARAGUA, AS WELL AS PANAMA AND OTHERS. THIS SITUATION COULD PERFECTLY WELL LESSEN THE AMOUNT OF AID TO EL SALVADOR. THIS IS A POSSIBILITY.</p><p>[MODERATOR] JUAN BURGOS OF INTERPRESS SERVICE.</p><p>[BURGOS] [PASSAGE INDISTINCT] UN SECRETARY GENERAL THAT ARE INTERPRETED AS THAT PRESSURE WAS APPLIED TO YOU AND TO THE ARMED FORCES COMMANDERS BY SOME POLITICAL LEADERS.</p><p>[CRISTIANI] I CAN TELL YOU VERY CLEARLY, AND I BELIEVE THAT THE UN SECRETARY GENERAL CAN TESTIFY TO MY STATEMENTS, THAT OUR POSITION HAS BEEN FITTING AND CONSISTENT AND THAT WE MAINTAIN THE POSITION WE EXPRESSED TO HIM AT PRESENT. WE DID PLACE AS A PRE-CONDITION THAT THE FMLN STOP ALL TERRORIST ACTIONS. IT IS HARD TO UNDERSTAND THAT THE UNITED NATIONS, AN ORGANIZATION THAT HAS CONDEMNED TERRORISM, CANNOT BACK OUR POSITION, AS WE ARE TRYING TO ELIMINATE FMLN TERRORIST ACTIONS. BUT WE HAVE NOT CHANGED OUR POSITION, AND IT IS THE SAME ONE WE EXPRESSED TO THE UN SECRETARY GENERAL.</p><p>[MODERATOR) MARGARITA ARTEGA OF ACAN-EFE.</p><p>[ARTEAGA] MR. PRESIDENT, I WOULD LIKE TO ASK YOU IF THE MOBILIZATION OF PEASANTS TODAY [WORDS INDISTINCT] COULD BE AN ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE STATE OF SIEGE IS ABOUT TO LIFTED, AS, SUPPOSEDLY, CONCENTRATIONS AND MOBILIZATIONS ARE PROHIBITED?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] IT DEPENDS ON THE SECURITY SITUATION. THE STATE OF SIEGE IS NOT PERMANENT. WE MUST ANALYZE THE CONTEXT OF THE THREAT THAT MIGHT EXIST WITH REGARD TO SECURITY. WE HAVE READ SOME REPORTS, THOUGH WE HAVE NOT YET CONFIRMED THEM, CLAIMING THAT THE FMLN HAS SAID THAT IT DOES NOT INTEND TO LAUNCH ANY MORE OFFENSIVES. IT IS A GOOD SIGN THAT THE FMLN IS LOOKING FOR A WAY TO A DIALOGUE, AND THIS COULD PRODUCE THE LIFTING OF THE STATE OF SIEGE. AS YOU KNOW, THE STATE OF SIEGE HAS BEEN GREATLY REDUCED. IT IS NOT THE SAME. WE HAVE BEEN REDUCING IT PROGRESSIVELY AND IT IS NOW STRICTLY WHAT IS NECESSARY FOR NATIONAL SECURITY.</p><p>[MODERATOR] FRANCISCO ESPINOSA FOR ABC NEWS.</p><p>[ESPINOZA] [PASSAGE INDISTINCT]</p><p>[CRISTIANI] WELL, I DO NOT KNOW. I BELIEVE THAT FOR A DIALOGUE TO TAKE PLACE, THE PRE-CONDITION HAS TO BE MET, REGARDLESS OF NICARGUAN ELECTION RESULTS AND WHAT IT MEANS FOR THE FMLN. OUR POSITION IS BASED ON PRINCIPLES, ON THE PRINCIPLE THAT THE PEOPLE NOT CONTINUE TO SUFFER THE VIOLENCE GENERATED BY FMLN TERRORISM. THUS, THIS IS SOMETHING THAT HAS TO BE MET, REGARDLESS OF THE ELECTIONS. OBVIOUSLY, I BELIEVE THE RESULTS OF THE NICARAGUAN ELECTIONS WILL AFFECT THE FMLN IN SOME MEASURES, AND THIS COULD INCLUDE... [CHANGES THOUGHT] I DO NOT KNOW. WE WOULD HAVE TO SEE WHAT POSITION THEY WILL TAKE IN THE FUTURE, BUT IT COULD BE. OBVIOUSLY A CHANGE HAS OCCURRED AND WILL HAVE AN IMPACT AND COULD MOVE THE FMLN TO CHANGE ITS POSITION. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>