<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0530"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0530"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0530</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0530 (UMASS)</p><p>LA PAZ, 28 SEP 89 (LA RED PANAMERICANA) -- [TEXT] BOLIVIAN PRESIDENT JAIME PAZ ZAMORA HAS STATED THAT BOLIVIA NEEDS ADEQUATE ASSISTANCE TO SOLVE ITS PROBLEMS. HE ADDED THAT BOLIVIA NEEDS A LEADER LIKE NORIEGA TO ATTRACT INTERNATIONAL ATTENTION.</p><p>IN A NEWS CONFERENCE WITH U.S. REPORTERS, PRESIDENT PAZ YESTERDAY ANSWERED SEVERAL QUESTIONS ABOUT THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING AND THE ERADICATION OF COCA CROPS. THE BOLIVIAN PRESIDENT STRESSED THE EFFORTS MADE BY THE BOLIVIAN PEOPLE TO OVERCOME HYPERINFLATION OF MORE THAN 27,000 PERCENT. HE SAID THAT INFLATION IS PREDICTED TO REACH 12 PERCENT DURING HIS ADMINISTRATION.</p><p>PAZ ZAMORA STATED THAT THE HIGHLY INDUSTRIALIZED COUNTRIES MUST PAY ATTENTION TO NATIONS SUCH AS BOLIVIA THAT FACE DIFFICULT ECONOMIC SITUATIONS AND AT THE SAME TIME STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING. HE CRITICIZED THE BEHAVIOR OF WORLD POWERS, AND HE SAID THAT SUCH BEHAVIOR MUST BE CHANGED.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PAZ ZAMORA] WE ARE SICK AND TIRED OF THE WAY INDUSTRIALIZED COUNTRIES AND THEIR PEOPLE ARE BEHAVING, MAINTAINING CERTAIN SADOMASOCHISTIC RELATIONS WITH THE UNDERDEVELOPED NATIONS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE BOLIVIAN PRESIDENT TRIED TO MAKE THE U.S. PRESS UNDERSTAND THE INDIFFERENCE THAT CERTAIN COUNTRIES, NAMELY THE ECONOMIC POWERS, SHOW TOWARD BOLIVIA.</p><p>TO EXPLAIN HIS REMARKS, HE SAID THAT PERHAPS A GENERAL SHOULD ASSUME POWER, AND MILITARY FORCES SHOULD BESIEGE THE U.S. EMBASSY, AND A FEW HUNDRED PEOPLE SHOULD BE MURDERED TO GET THE ATTENTION OF THE WORLD.</p><p>PAZ ZAMORA DEMANDED GREATER UNDERSTANDING FROM THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS THAT IMPOSE EXTREMELY DIFFICULT CONDITIONS FOR ACHIEVING ECONOMIC STABILITY. DOES A WAR KILL MORE PEOPLE THAN AN ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM, THE BOLIVIAN PRESIDENT ASKED. HE INVITED THE U.S. REPORTERS TO REVIEW THE STATISTICS ON THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE KILLED IN THE SALVADORAN WAR AND THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO DIED IN BOLIVIA BECAUSE OF THE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENTS.</p><p>PRESIDENT PAZ HAS STATED THAT THE FACT THAT BOLIVIA IS A COCA- PRODUCING COUNTRY IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE U.S. TREATMENT OF THE MATTER. HE SAID THAT THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING DEMANDS ACTION TO CONTROL CONSUMPTION. HE ADDED THAT BOLIVIA IS NOT RECEIVING THE NECESSARY RESOURCES TO DEAL WITH THE SOCIAL PROBLEMS RESULTING FROM THE REDUCTION OF COCA PRODUCTION.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PAZ] AN ANTINARCOTICS PROGRAM FOR BOLIVIA SIMILAR TO THAT IMPLEMENTED IN COLOMBIA WOULD BE A GREAT MISTAKE [END RECORDING].</p><p>HE DEMANDED REAL ALTERNATIVES FOR WORK AND PRODUCTION FOR BOLIVIAN PEASANTS. HE SAID THAT UNTIL THIS IS ACHIEVED, THE MISTAKES OF THE PAST WILL BE REPEATED.</p></body></html>