<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0641"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0641"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0641</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0641 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 2 NOV 89 (EL DIARIO DE HOY) -- [TEXT] COLONEL FRANCISCO ELENA FUENTES, COMMANDER OF THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE, IN ANALYZING RECENT ACTS OF VIOLENCE IN SAN SALVADOR, HAS REPORTED THAT GROUPS OUT OF THE CONTROL OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT - REVOLUTIONARY DEMOCRATIC FRONT [FMLN -FDR] ALLIANCE COULD BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MOST RECENT ACTS OF VIOLENCE.</p><p>THE MILITARY COMMANDER WAS CAREFUL IN MAKING HIS STATEMENT. HE SAID THAT HE HAS NO EVIDENCE THAT THOSE GROUPS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE EXPLOSIONS IN THE SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION [FENASTRAS] AND COMADRES [COMMITTEE OF MOTHERS AND RELATIVES OF THE PAST, THE ARMY HAS BEEN BLAMED, AND LATER IT HAS BEEN DISCOVERED THAT FMLN TERRORISTS HAD CARRIED THEM OUT.</p><p>ELENA FUENTES RECALLED THAT A FEW DAYS AGO THERE WAS AN EXPLOSION ON THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY CAMPUS AND HE WENT THERE AND IT WAS ESTABLISHED IN FRONT OF STUDENT LEADERS THAT THE EXPLOSION WAS CAUSED BY A GRENADE THAT WENT OFF IN THE HANDS OF A YOUNG LEFTIST WHO WAS HANDLING IT. BY THEN, HOWEVER, STATEMENTS HAD ALREADY BEEN MADE ACCUSING THE MILITARY.</p><p>ELENA FUENTES ALSO REFERRED TO INTERNAL PURGES WITHIN COMMUNIST GROUPS, PURGES LIKE THE CASE OF MELIDA ANAYA MONTES, ALIAS COMMANDER MARIA; SALVADOR CAYETANO CARPIO, ALIAS MARCIAL; AND OTHERS.</p><p>HE SAID: "IT WOULD NOT BE STRANGE TO FIND THAT THESE ACTIONS HAVE BEEN THE RESULT OF A PURGE OR A DIVERSIONARY TACTIC BY THE COMMUNISTS TO ATTRACT POLITICAL ATTENTION AND GAIN THE PEOPLE'S SUPPORT, WHICH EVERYBODY BELIEVES THEY ARE LOSING."</p><p>IT WAS RECALLED, WITH ALL DUE RESPECT, THAT THE NAME OF ONE OF THE VICTIMS OF THE FENASTRAS ATTACK, FEBE ELIZABETH VELASQUEZ, WAS MENTIONED IN THE INVESTIGATIONS BEING CARRIED OUT BY INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS OVER THE EMBEZZLEMENT OF AID FROM EUROPEAN COUNTRIES THAT WAS TO BENEFIT THE MOST NEEDY PEOPLE IN OUR COUNTRY, BUT THAT ENDED UP IN THE HANDS OF TERRORIST GROUPS TO BE USED FOR TERRORIST PURPOSES.</p><p>ELENA FUENTES STATED: "TIME AND INVESTIGATIONS WILL TELL WHAT REALLY HAPPENED."</p><p>HE SAID THAT THE PURPOSE OF THESE ATTACKS, ESPECIALLY THE ONE ON THE DEFENSE MINISTRY, FOR WHICH THE FMLN - FDR CLAIMED CREDIT, AS WELL AS THE ATTACKS ON COMADRES AND FENASTRAS, WAS TO GIVE THE FMLN - FDR LEADERSHIP JUSTIFICATION TO WITHDRAW FROM THE DIALOGUE.</p><p>ELENA FUENTES SAID THAT THE TERRORIST GUADALUPE MARTINEZ SAID IN MANAGUA YESTERDAY THAT THE LEFTIST LEADERSHIP IS CONSIDERING NOT GOING TO THE DIALOGUE MEETINGS BECAUSE OF THE ATTACKS.</p></body></html>