<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1157"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1157"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1157</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1157 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 8 MAR 90 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [TEXT] HERE IS AN EXCERPT OF WHAT AN OFFICIAL REPORT BY THE GOVERNMENT AND THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE, ARENA, REGARD AS A COMPLETELY RECKLESS PUBLICATION AND WITHOUT ANY CREDIBILITY.</p><p>THE COMMUNIQUE IS BY THE SO-CALLED DEATH SQUADS, AND AN EXCERPT OF IT RELEASED A FEW HOURS AGO THROUGH VARIOUS LOCAL AND FOREIGN MEDIA READS AS FOLLOWS:</p><p>TO THE NEWS MEDIA, POLITICAL PARTIES, THE CATHOLIC CHURCH, UNIONS, WORKERS, PEASANT ORGANIZATIONS, AND DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS: THE UNDERSIGNED, SUPREME COMMANDERS OF THE DEATH SQUADS WHO MET ON 13 FEBRUARY SOMEWHERE IN SAN SALVADOR IN AN EXTRAORDINARY ASSEMBLY AND WHO REPRESENT ALL OUR CHAPTERS AND CADRES SCATTERED IN THE COUNTRY'S 14 DEPARTMENTS, STRONGLY AND MANFULLLY DECLARE: SENTENCE UNFINISHED AS HEARD</p><p>THE DOCUMENT, WITH PARAGRAPHS HIGHLIGHTED BY THE AUTHORS, STATES THAT THE OFFICERS AND ENLISTED MEN INVOLVED IN THE JESUITS' MURDERS MUST BE RELEASED BEFORE HOLY WEEK, OR ELSE THEY WILL PHYSICALLY ELIMINATE ALL CIVILIAN AND RELIGIOUS PERSONNEL, INSIDE AND OUTSIDE THE GOVERNMENT, WHO HAVE ANYTHING TO DO WITH THIS CASE.</p><p>THE COMMUNIQUE NOTES: NEVER BEFORE IN THE HISTORY OF EL SALVADOR HAS ANY OFFICER BEEN TRIED, AND AS WE HAVE LEARNED, NO SOLDIER HAS BEEN, AND MUST NOT BE, SUBJECT TO ANY LAW OF THE REPUBLIC. IT ADDS: KEEP IN MIND, LEST WE BEGIN TO CARRY OUT REPRISALS, THAT THROUGHOUT OUR HISTORY WE HAVE ALWAYS GONE UNPUNISHED, A PRIVILEGE THAT WE ARE NOT READY TO LOSE.</p><p>A STATEMENT BY THE GOVERNMENT AND ARENA, WHICH ARE MENTIONED IN THE COMMUNIQUE, TOTALLY REJECTED THE DOCUMENT THAT, WE REPEAT, WAS DISTRIBUTED IN SAN SALVADOR A FEW HOURS AGO. IN A WARNING TO THE NEWS MEDIA, THE AUTHORS SAY THAT THE MEDIA ARE OBLIGATED TO MAKE THIS COMMUNIQUE KNOWN, OR ELSE THEIR INSTALLATIONS AND STAFF WILL SUFFER THE CONSEQUENCES OF THEIR DISOBEDIENCE. THE AUTHORS OF THE COMMUNIQUE ALSO REFER TO A NEWSPAPER THAT THEY REGARD AS THEIR OFFICIAL MOUTHPIECE, AND THEY WARN THAT, FOR THE GOOD AND SECURITY OF THE COUNTRY AND THE FATHERLAND, THIS NEWSPAPER MUST BE CLEARER IN IDENTIFYING PEOPLE AND FIGURES WHO HAVE ALREADY BEEN JUDGED AND CONDEMNED IN ORDER TO CAPTURE AND DESTROY THEM.</p><p>MEANWHILE, TERMING THE COMMUNIQUE AS RECKLESS AND THE ENTIRE SITUATION AS DESPICABLE, THE GOVERNMENT AND ARENA REJECT ANY TIES TO ANY DEATH SQUADS.</p><p>THE COMMUNIQUE BY THE SELF-STYLED DEATH SQUADS IS SIGNED BY AQUILES BAIRES [LEADER OF THE SECRET ANTICOMMUNIST ARMY], THE MAXIMILIANO HERNANDEZ MARTINEZ SQUAD [ESCUADRON MAXIMILIANIO HERNANDEZ MARTINEZ], THE ALLIANCE OF ANTICOMMUNIST ACTION [ALIANZA DE ACCION ANTICOMUNISTA], AND THE COMMITTEE FOR THE SALVATION OF THE FATHERLAND COMITE PRO SALVACION DE LA PATRIA. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>