<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0101"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0101"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0101</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0101 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 30 OCT 89 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [REPORT] [TEXT] PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI SAID POSITIVE RESULTS WERE OBTAINED DURING THE PRESIDENTIAL SUMMIT IN COSTA RICA. ONE OF THE ACCOMPLISHMENTS, CRISTIANI SAID, IS THAT THERE WAS AN OPPORTUNITY TO HOLD BILATERAL TALKS WITH SOUTH AMERICAN PRESIDENTS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CRISTIANI] WE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO HOLD BILATERAL TALKS WITH SOUTH AMERICAN PRESIDENTS AND TO BRIEF THEM ON THE PEACE PROCESS, THE GOVERNMENT EFFORTS TO ATTAIN PEACE, AND THE OBJECTIVES OF THE PEACE PROCESS. THE PRESIDENTS RECEIVED FIRSTHAND INFORMATION ON THE PEACE PLAN AND ON THE RESULTS THE GOVERNMENT EXPECTS FROM THIS PROCESS [WORDS INDISTINCT]. I BELIEVE WE HAVE RECEIVED GREAT SUPPORT FOR THE PEACE PROCESS. AS A COUNTRY, EL SALVADOR HAS RECEIVED THE LATIN AMERICAN PRESIDENTS' SUPPORT FOR THE PEACE PROCESS, ESPECIALLY THE SUPPORT OF THE SOUTH AMERICAN PRESIDENTS WITH WHOM WE HAD NOT HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO HOLD BILATERAL TALKS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>REGARDING THE COFFEE PROBLEM, CRISTIANI SAID THE PRESIDENTS NOTED THE NEED FOR REACHING AGREEMENTS ON THE COFFEE PACT AND THE PRICE OF COFFEE. HE ADDED THAT DURING THE PRESIDENTIAL SUMMIT HE CONDEMNED, IN THE PRESENCE OF ALL PRESIDENTS, THE AID NICARAGUA GIVES TO THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT]. HOWEVER, THERE WAS NO RESPONSE FROM THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT, CRISTIANI STATED.</p><p>CONCERNING THE RECENT ATTACKS BLAMED ON THE GUERRILLAS, PARTICULARLY THE 30 OCTOBER ATTACK ON THE ARMY'S HIGH COMMAND, CRISTIANI SAID THIS IS REGRETTABLE BECAUSE CIVILIANS ARE MORE AFFECTED BY SUCH ATTACKS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CRISTIANI] THIS INCIDENT TAKES PLACE AT A TIME WHEN THE FMLN IS TRYING TO SHOW ITS STRENGTH. THE FMLN IS ALSO TRYING TO PROVOKE SOME REACTION FROM THE ARMED FORCES SO THAT THE ARMY, IN A GIVEN MOMENT, EXERTS PRESSURE TO SUSPEND THE DIALOGUE PROCESS. I THINK THIS IS THE REASON FOR THEIR ATTITUDE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>CRISTIANI ADDED THAT SUCH ATTITUDES WILL NOT HINDER THE DIALOGUE PROCESS IN VENEZUELA. HE ADDED THAT THE GOVERNMENT PROPOSAL WILL BE THE SAME PROPOSAL PRESENTED IN COSTA RICA AND IT WILL BE FULLY DISCUSSED. HOWEVER, THE PRIORITY WILL ALWAYS BE THE CESSATION OF HOSTILITIES.</p></body></html>