<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0501"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0501"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0501</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0501 (UMASS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 21 SEP 89 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] AN ESCALATION IN TERRORIST ACTS AFFECTED THE CAPITAL AND RESULTED IN ONE PERSON WOUNDED AND UNDETERMINED LARGE PROPERTY LOSSES.</p><p>NINE POWERFUL BOMBS EXPLODED ALMOST SIMULTANEOUSLY AT 0315 THIS MORNING AT EIGHT POLITICAL PARTIES' OFFICES AND A BRANCH OF THE SOCIAL SAVINGS ASSOCIATION.</p><p>ACCORDING TO AUTHORITIES, THE BOMBS WENT OFF AT THE POLITICAL OFFICE OF SOCIAL CONSERVATIVE COUNCILMAN DIEGO PARDO COPEL AT NO. 1810 ON 34TH STREET, THE POLITICAL OFFICES OF BOGOTA DISTRICT COUNCILMAN RICAURTE LOZANA VALDERRAMA AT NO. 2228 ON 37TH STREET AND NO. 2163 ON 34TH AVENUE, THE POLITICAL OFFICE OF SOCIAL CONSERVATIVE COUNCILMAN FRANCISCO FANADOR CABRERA LOCATED AT NO. 1824 ON 32D AVENUE, A LIBERAL PARTY OFFICE LOCATED AT NO. 1866 ON 36TH STREET, A LIBERAL PARTY REGISTRATION OFFICE LOCATED AT NO. 1976 28TH AVENUE, AN INDEPENDENT CONSERVATIVE PARTY OFFICE AT NO. 2326 37TH STREET, THE POLITICAL OFFICE OF MIGUEL SANTAMARIA DAVILA AT NO. 4136 28TH AVENUE, AND AT A BRANCH OF THE SOCIAL SAVINGS ASSOCIATION AT NO. 5119 ON 86TH STREET.</p><p>THE DETONATIONS SHOOK TEUSAQUILLO NEIGHBORHOOD, AND ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL REPORTS, THE AUTHORITIES FELT COMPELLED TO INCREASE SECURITY MEASURES.</p><p>THE WOUNDED PERSON WAS IDENTIFIED AS IRMA DE PUENTES, WHO WAS QUICKLY TREATED AT A CLINIC AND RELEASED BECAUSE SHE HAD ONLY A MINOR WOUND IN THE LEG.</p></body></html>