<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0808"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0808"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0808</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0808 (PRC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 18 NOV 89 (AFP) -- [EXCERPT] THE CAPITAL FELL INTO DARKNESS SATURDAY NIGHT AS ELECTRICAL SERVICE THROUGHOUT SAN SALVADOR WAS CUT AND THE COUNTRY ENTERED THE EIGHTH DAY OF A NATIONWIDE REBEL OFFENSIVE.</p><p>INSURGENTS FROM THE LEFTIST FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) STILL HELD KEY POSITIONS AROUND THE CAPITAL, FENDING OFF FIERCE SALVADORAN AIR AND ARTILLERY ATTACKS.</p><p>THE POWER OUTAGE, WHICH HAD AFFECTED CERTAIN ZONES OF THE CITY AND SURROUNDING SUBURBS BUT NOT THE ENTIRE CITY OVER THE PAST WEEK OF FIGHTING, CAME AMID UNCONFIRMED REPORTS THAT THE ARMY WAS PREPARING A MAJOR COUNTER-OFFENSIVE TO DRIVE THE REBELS FROM THE SAN SALVADOR METROPOLITAN AREA.</p><p>GOVERNMENT SOLDIERS BLOCKED ALL ACCESS TO THE REBEL-HELD NORTHERN AND EASTERN SECTORS OF THE CAPITAL.</p><p>THOUSANDS OF SALVADORANS CONTINUED TO FLEE THE COMBAT ZONES, WHERE A NUMBER HAVE BEEN KILLED IN THE CROSS-FIRE SINCE THE LEFTIST FMLN LAUNCHED ITS ATTACK NOVEMBER 11 -- THE BOLDEST OFFENSIVE OF THE 10-YEAR CIVIL WAR.</p><p>INSURGENTS WHO THURSDAY HAD EVACUATED THE DISTRICT OF ZACAMIL -- DEVASTATED BY THE ARMED FORCES' AERIAL FIREBOMBINGS -- REGROUPED IN AYUTUXTEPEQUE, AN AREA NORTH OF THE CAPITAL, ACCORDING TO PRESS REPORTS.</p><p>FIGHTING WAS REPORTEDLY ALSO RAGING IN APOPA, 12 KILOMETERS (7.5 MILES) NORTH OF THE CAPITAL ON THE MAJOR NORTHERN ROUTE.</p><p>IN THE CITY OF SAN MIGUEL, 140 KILOMETERS (87 MILES) EAST OF THE CAPITAL, THE REBELS SHOT DOWN A GOVERNMENT A-37 COMBAT PLANE, JOURNALISTS THERE SAID. THIS CONFIRMED EARLIER FMLN RADIO REPORTS THAT THE GUERRILLAS HAD SHOT DOWN AN ARMY DRAGON FLY A-37 AS IT WAS BOMBING REBEL-OCCUPIED SECTIONS OF THE CITY.</p><p>AUTHORITIES ESTIMATED THAT MORE THAN 2,000 PEOPLE HAD BEEN KILLED OR INJURED IN THE CONFLICT.</p><p>JOAO BAENA SOARES, SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS), WAS TO ARRIVE HERE SUNDAY WITH AN OAS DELEGATION SEEKING A CEASE-FIRE.</p></body></html>