<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0780"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0780"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0780</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0780 (PRC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 17 NOV 89 (CADENA REVOLUCIONARIA NACIONAL) -- [REPORT] [TEXT] [REPORTER] COMRADE VILLALOBOS [MEMBER OF THE GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN)] REFERRED TO THE BOMBINGS AND THE KILLING OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS. THIS IS THE QUESTION HE WAS ASKED: IN THE PAST FEW HOURS, SEVERAL GOVERNMENTS AND HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS HAVE PRESSURED THE GOVERNMENT TO STOP THE BOMBINGS AND THE BLOODSHED IN OUR HOMELAND. HOWEVER, DESPITE THIS INTERNATIONAL PRESSURE, THE JESUIT PRIESTS WERE KILLED IN SAN SALVADOR. THEREFORE, WHAT IS THE INTENTION BEHIND THE BOMBINGS? WHAT INTENTION DID THE ARMED FORCES' GENERAL STAFF HAVE IN KILLING THE JESUITS? COMMANDER VILLALOBOS REPLIED:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [VILLALOBOS] FIRST, IT MUST BE SAID THAT THE KILLING OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS BY THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT WAS A HARSH BLOW TO THE POSSIBILITIES FOR AN EFFECTIVE DEMOCRACY IN OUR COUNTRY. THE JESUIT PRIESTS ARE A SECTOR OF SALVADORAN SOCIETY THAT HAS MADE AND CONTINUES TO MAKE GREAT CONTRIBUTIONS TO OUR PEOPLE'S EDUCATION. THEY TAUGHT US HOW TO DEBATE, THE NEED TO REASON THINGS OUT, AND THE NEED TO HAVE POLITICAL PLURALISM.</p><p>HOWEVER, IT IS EVIDENT THAT THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES, THE [WORD INDISTINCT] SECTORS, AND MR. CRISTIANI CANNOT STAND INTELLIGENT PEOPLE, THE DEBATES, THE ANALYSES, AND THE PEOPLE'S REASONING. THIS IS WHY THEY COMMITTED THIS CRIME.</p><p>THE RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CRIME BECOMES EVIDENT, NOT ONLY BASED ON DIRECT CIRCUMSTANCES SUCH AS THE FACT THAT IT WAS CARRIED OUT BY UNIFORMED MEN DURING THE CURFEW PERIOD AND THAT A FEW DAYS BEFORE THE CRIME A GROUP OF MILITARY MEN CHECKED OUT THE PLACE WHERE THEY WERE GOING TO COMMIT THE CRIME -- CLEARLY INTENDING TO PREPARE A PLAN -- BUT BECAUSE OF ACCUSATIONS AGAINST THE JESUITS MADE OVER THE NATIONAL NETWORK. WE MUST ALSO BEAR IN MIND THAT THIS CRIME WAS A POLITICAL MISTAKE MADE BY THE DICTATORSHIP. IT WAS A MISCALCULATION ON THE PART OF THOSE WHO MADE THAT DECISION.</p><p>WE HAVE ALREADY MENTIONED THAT THE ARMED FORCES HAVE BEEN UNABLE TO STOP THE FMLN. THEY COULD NOT STOP THE FMLN PLAN. ONCE WE BEGAN TO IMPLEMENT THE PLAN [1-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] A VERY CRITICAL SITUATION.</p><p>WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THIS CRITICAL SITUATION, THEY TOOK THE WRONG STEP. THE DAY BEFORE THE CRIME THE ARMED FORCES BEGAN A STRATEGY TO WEAR OUT THE FMLN, LOGISTICALLY. WE MUST NOT IGNORE THE FACT THAT THE ARMED FORCES' CALCULATIONS WERE BASED ON THE ASSUMPTION THAT THE FMLN FORCES WOULD BECOME EXHAUSTED. WE WOULD HAVE MADE A SERIOUS MISTAKE IF WE HAD BEGUN THIS PLAN WITHOUT FORESEEING ALL THESE CIRCUMSTANCES. HOWEVER, THE ARMED FORCES BASED THEIR CALCULATIONS ON OUR POSSIBLE EXHAUSTION.</p><p>CONSEQUENTLY, BASED ON THOSE CALCULATIONS, THEY FIGURED THAT THEY HAD 3 OR 4 DAYS TO LAUNCH A COUNTERATTACK. SO, THE DAY PRIOR TO THE KILLING OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS, THEY LAUNCHED SEVERAL OFFENSIVES -- I RATHER CALL THEM COUNTEROFFENSIVES -- TO TRY TO DISLODGE US FROM OUR POSITIONS. THEIR TACTIC WAS TO MAKE US WASTE AMMUNITION. THEY WERE NOT REALLY TRYING TO MAKE US ABANDON OUR POSITIONS YET.</p><p>HOWEVER, OUR FIGHTERS, IN ADDITION TO SAVING OUR AMMUNITION, HAVE THE MATERIAL AND HUMAN RESOURCES SO THEY INFLICTED MANY CASUALTIES ON THE ARMED FORCES AND WORE THEM OUT. BUT IT SEEMS THAT THE ARMED FORCES DID NOT REALIZE THAT AND FELT THAT THEY COULD LAUNCH A BIG COUNTERATTACK TO ANNIHILATE THE FMLN FORCES. BASED ON THAT, THEY CAME UP WITH A PLAN THAT WAS NOT ONLY MILITARY BUT POLITICAL. [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE U.S. AMBASSADOR, THE U.S. ADVISERS, THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION, AND WHO KNOWS WHO ELSE WERE INFORMED ABOUT THIS PLAN. THEY MADE THE WRONG INTERPRETATION OF THE CALLS MADE BY THE INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS AND OTHER HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS ON THE NEED TO HAVE A TRUCE TO EVACUATE CIVILIANS. THEY THOUGHT THAT WE MADE THESE CALLS AND BASED ON THAT, THEY FELT THAT THEY COULD PROCEED TO A COUNTEROFFENSIVE.</p><p>BASED ON THAT, LET US ANALYZE THE PROPAGANDA AND INFORMATION DISSEMINATED ON THE DAY PRIOR TO THE KILLING OF THE JESUITS. THE U.S. AMBASSADOR HIMSELF EXPLAINED A WAR REPORT AND GAVE AN UPDATE ON THE SITUATION. THUS, THEY THOUGHT THAT THE FMLN WAS GOING TO SUFFER A GREAT POLITICAL AND MILITARY DEFEAT IN THE NEXT FEW HOURS. THEY HAD AN OVERALL PLAN. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>