<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0774"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0774"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0774</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0774 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>NO CITY, NO DATE -- [STATEMENT] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] ACTIONS SUCH AS THESE, ACCOMPANIED BY ORCHESTRATED SLANDEROUS CAMPAIGNS, SCARE AWAY INVESTMENTS FROM OUR COUNTRY AND THE HUMANITARIAN AID THAT WE NEED SO MUCH. DR CUSTODIO, THE SAME AS NORIEGA, CONTINUES TO DECEIVE THE PEOPLE AND EXPLOIT THEM TO FURTHER PERSONAL INTERESTS AND INTERNATIONAL COMMUNISM. AS A BUREAUCRAT, (ALTHOUGH HE TRIES TO COVER THIS UP), CUSTODIO OWNS MANY MATERIAL GOODS AND FOREIGN BANK ACCOUNTS, AND AS IF THIS WERE NOT ENOUGH, HE IS FUELING THE BONFIRE OF VIOLENCE IN OUR COUNTRY ONLY TO RUN AWAY WHEN THE FIRE GIVES WAY TO CHAOS AND ANARCHY AMONG THE PEOPLE. HE WILL LEAVE THE COUNTRY WITH HIS INTERNATIONAL CONTACTS AND FEEL SATISFIED FOR WHAT HE HAS DONE.</p><p>PEACE IN CENTRAL AMERICA [SUBHEAD]</p><p>CODEH HAS DONE NOTHING FOR PEACE IN CENTRAL AMERICA. QUITE THE CONTRARY, IT HAS DISCREDITED DEMOCRATIC COUNTRIES AND SUPPORTED THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT OF DANIEL ORTEGA, WHO IS NOW DOING ALL HE CAN TO BOYCOTT FREE ELECTIONS TO WHICH THE NICARAGUAN PEOPLE ARE ENTITLED TO, AND TO MURDER THOSE WHO LAID DOWN THEIR ARMS AND ARE RETURNING TO THE COUNTRY IN SEARCH OF PEACE, DEMOCRACY, AND LIBERTY.</p><p>CODEH HAS DONE NOTHING TO PROMOTE PEACE AND RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS, BECAUSE IT IS SUPPORTING AND PROMOTING THE RECRUITMENT, TRAINING, AND ACTIONS OF GUERRILLA GROUPS, WHICH ARE DESTABILIZING AND SOWING VIOLENCE AMONG DEMOCRATIC PEOPLES.</p><p>THE EVIDENCE IS CLEAR. CODEH BELIEVES THAT THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT IS THE BEST ONE IN CENTRAL AMERICA. THE FSLN [SANDINIST NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT], WITH CUBA'S SUPPORT, IS CHANNELLING ARMS TO THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT OF EL SALVADOR TO MURDER INNOCENT SALVADORAN PEOPLE. ALL THIS IS TAKING PLACE WITH THE APPROVAL OF DR CUSTODIO AND HIS FINANCING SOURCES, WHICH REALIZE THAT THEIR STRATEGIC, IDEOLOGICAL, ECONOMIC, AND POLITICAL GOALS ARE COMING TRUE.</p><p>CONCLUSION [SUBHEAD]</p><p>IN CONCLUSION: WHAT CAN THE HONDURAN PEOPLE EXPECT FROM DR CUSTODIO AND CODEH WHEN THEY WOULD RATHER DESTROY HONDURAS AND ITS PEOPLE TO INGRATIATE THEMSELVES WITH THE COMMUNISTS?</p><p>WHAT CAN BE EXPECTED FROM A HUMAN RIGHTS "LEADER" WHO IS CONSTANTLY DENOUNCING CONDEMNATIONS AND ATTACKS AND DEFINES HIMSELF AS A PERSECUTED PERSON, AND WHO MANIPULATES PUBLIC OPINION TO GAIN NOTORIETY WHILE CREATING FEAR AND TERROR AMONG THE HONDURAN PEOPLE?</p><p>WHAT FUTURE CAN HONDURAS EXPECT WHEN THE ALLEGED HUMAN RIGHTS DEFENDER SPECIALIZES IN DISCREDITING THE HONDURAN PEOPLE ABROAD?</p><p>WHAT CAN THE HONDURAN PEOPLE EXPECT WHEN CODEH COLLABORATES WITH AND SUPPORTS THE ARMING OF THE SANDINISTS, SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS, AND DICTATOR NORIEGA?</p><p>DR CUSTODIO IS NOT BEING PERSECUTED FOR POLITICAL REASONS, HE IS NO HUMAN RIGHTS LEADER, AND HE HAS NOT BEEN CONDEMNED TO DEATH. HE IS SIMPLY A MAN WHO HAS CHOSEN THE WRONG PATH. WHILE COMMUNISM BEHIND THE IRON CURTAIN, WHICH IS OVER 70 YEARS OLD, IS EMBRACING DEMOCRACY AS A WAY OF LIFE (HUNGARY, POLAND), HE INTENDS TO REPLACE DEMOCRACY FOR COMMUNISM AND LIBERTY FOR SLAVERY IN HONDURAS.</p><p>DR CUSTODIO HAS SIMPLY MADE A MISTAKE AND HE STAYS ON HIS PATH THROUGH DECEIT AND LIES.</p><p>DOWN WITH THE HONDURAN MARXIST-LENINIST TRAITORS!</p><p>STOP INTERNATIONAL COMMUNISM!</p><p>STOP THE MANIPULATION OF THE HONDURAN PEOPLE!</p><p>DEMOCRATS WILL NOT ALLOW THE ENSLAVEMENT AND MURDER OF THE PEOPLES!</p><p>LET US STOP THOSE WHO MANIPULATE HUMAN RIGHTS OF OUR HONDURAS.</p><p>FREE HONDURAS MOVEMENT</p></body></html>