<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0747"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0747"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0747</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0747 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 14 NOV 89 (CADENA REVOLUCIONARIA NACIONAL) -- [STATEMENT] [GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] [TEXT] THE ARMY FAILED TODAY IN ITS ATTEMPT TO RECOVER THE POSITIONS TAKEN OVER BY OUR FORCES ON 11 NOVEMBER IN THE COUNTRY'S MAIN CITIES.</p><p>THE ENEMY'S COUNTEROFFENSIVE RESULTED IN MORE BLOODSHED AMONG ITS RANKS. THE ARMY SOWED TERROR AND DEATH AMONG THE CIVILIAN POPULATION BY CARRYING OUT INDISCRIMINATE MACHINEGUNNING AND BOMBINGS AGAINST DENSELY POPULATED AREAS IN APOPA, THE HERMITA AND OBRERA NEIGHBORHOODS, THE CEMETERY AREA, THE SANTA ELENA NEIGHBORHOOD, THE OUTSKIRTS OF USULUTAN, LA ESMERALDA NEIGHBORHOOD, LA COQUERA AND EL GRANILLO IN SAN MIGUEL, THE NORTHERN MAIN HIGHWAY, ZACATECOLUCA, SOYAPANGO, AYUTUXTEPEQUE, AND ZACAMIL.</p><p>IN MANY OF THESE PLACES, THE AIR RAIDS LASTED PRACTICALLY ALL DAY, PRODUCING NUMEROUS CASUALTIES AMONG MEN, WOMEN, AND CHILDREN, AND DESTROYING MANY HOUSES AND OTHER BUILDINGS.</p><p>IN OVERCOMING THE ARMY'S COUNTEROFFENSIVE, WE HAVE MAINTAINED ABSOLUTE CONTROL OF ALL OUR POSITIONS IN THE VARIOUS PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>WE HAVE INFLICTED THE FOLLOWING CUMULATIVE DAMAGE TO THE ENEMY: APPROXIMATELY 760 CASUALTIES, 24 ARMORED VEHICLES OUT OF COMBAT, AS WELL AS 11 HELICOPTERS AND PLANES.</p><p>SUPPORT FOR THE TRANSPORTATION STOPPAGE HAS BEEN TOTAL IN ALMOST ALL PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>ONLY 24 HOURS AFTER SUMMONING THE PEOPLE FOR A GENERAL REBELLION, PEOPLE HAVE MASSIVELY JOINED IN THE TASKS OF COLLABORATION AND SUPPORT OR HAVE DIRECTLY PARTICIPATED IN COMBAT.</p><p>THE DECREE DECLARING A 24-HOUR CURFEW IN THE NORTHERN PART OF SAN SALVADOR SHOWS THAT WHAT THE ARMY IS FACING THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY IS NOT THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] BUT THE PEOPLE'S GROWING REBELLION.</p><p>OUR HEROIC FIGHTERS HAVE RESPONDED WITH THE USUAL VIGOR AND EFFICIENCY TO THE ORDER GIVEN BY OUR GENERAL COMMAND TO HOLD THE POSITIONS CONQUERED AND IMMEDIATELY ORGANIZE THE PEOPLE'S GENERAL UPRISING.</p><p>OUT WITH THE FASCISTS; FEBE ELIZABETH LIVES!</p><p>[SIGNED] FMLN GENERAL COMMAND COMMANDERS SALVADOR SANCHEZ SEREN, FRANCISCO JOVEL, EDUARDO SANCHO, SHAFIK JORGE HANDAL, AND JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS EL SALVADOR, 14 NOVEMBER 1989</p></body></html>