<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0287"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0287"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0287</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0287 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 10 JUL 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] AFTER SPENDING 130 DAYS ABROAD, BERNARDO JARAMILLO, PRESIDENT OF THE LEFT-WING PATRIOTIC UNION (UP), RETURNED TO COLOMBIA TODAY TO URGE THE CASTROITE ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION (ELN) TO JOIN THE PEACE PROCESS BEING PROMOTED BY THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT.</p><p>JARAMILLO, A 35-YEAR-OLD LEGISLATOR, REPLACED JAIME PARDO LEAL AS UP PRESIDENT AFTER PARDO LEAL WAS ASSASSINATED IN OCTOBER 1987. JARAMILLO HAD LEFT THE COUNTRY AFTER RECEIVING MANY DEATH THREATS.</p><p>THE ELN IS THE ONLY COLOMBIAN SUBVERSIVE GROUP THAT REFUSES TO ACCEPT THE PEACE PROPOSALS FORMULATED BY THE ADMINISTRATION OF PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO AND INSTEAD HAS INCREASED ITS ATTACKS ON THE COUNTRY'S PETROLEUM INSTALLATIONS TO DEMAND THE NATIONALIZATION OF THAT INDUSTRY.</p><p>JARAMILLO ASKED THE ELN TO STOP ITS VIOLENT ACTIONS, WHICH, HE SAID, DO NOT IN ANY WAY BENEFIT COLOMBIA.</p><p>THE LEFTIST LEADER SAID HE IS WELL INFORMED ABOUT THE COUNTRY'S POLITICAL DEVELOPMENT AND ADDED THAT "THE SOCIAL AND POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT HAS IMPROVED."</p><p>THE BARCO ADMINISTRATION, HE SAID, HAS BEGUN TO TAKE MEASURES TO PROTECT CITIZENS.</p><p>"MORE SECURITY MEASURES ARE NEEDED, BUT SOME MEASURES ARE BEING ADOPTED," JARAMILLO SAID. HE STRESSED THAT IF ALL THE SUBVERSIVE GROUPS DECIDE TO HOLD A SINCERE DIALOGUE FOR PEACE, IT WOULD BE VERY POSITIVE FOR THE COUNTRY.</p></body></html>