<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0620"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0620"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-31"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0620</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0620 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 31 OCT 89 (RADIO CADENA SONORA) -- [REPORT] [RAUL BELTRAN] [TEXT] [BELTRAN] A BOMB IN A CAR PARKED OUTSIDE THE FENSATRAS [SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION] BUILDING DETONATED AND CAUSED A STRONG EXPLOSION. WE CAN REPORT THAT SEVEN PEOPLE WERE KILLED. WE REPEAT: 7 PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND 12 WERE SERIOUSLY INJURED....</p><p>[STUDIO REPORTER, INTERRUPTING] WHERE DID THE BOMB EXPLODE?</p><p>[BELTRAN] AT THE FENASTRAS BUILDING. LABOR LEADER FEBE ELIZABETH VELASQUEZ AND SEVEN [NUMBER AS HEARD] OTHER PEOPLE WERE KILLED. TWELVE WERE SERIOUSLY INJURED. AMONG THE INJURED ARE TWO GIRLS WHO WERE CLOSE TO THE MAIN ENTRACE OF FENASTRAS' BUILDING. WHEN WE SAY THAT THE EXPLOSION WAS CAUSED BY A CAR BOMB, WE MEAN THAT A PICKUP TRUCK PARKED OUTSIDE THE BUILDING'S MAIN GATE TOTALLY DESTROYED THIS BUILDING. MEETING AT THAT TIME WERE LEADERS OF [2-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] IN DOWNTOWN SAN SALVADOR. THIS IS OUR REPORT FROM THE SITE OF THE EXPLOSION.</p><p>[STUDIO REPORTER] A FEW MINUTES AGO A CAR BOMB WAS DETONATED OUTSIDE THE FENASTRAS BUILDING. THE BOMB WAS IN A PICKUP TRUCK WITH LICENSE PLATE NUMBER 15242. APPROXIMATELY 7 PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND 12 INJURED, INCLUDING 2 MINORS. IT WAS ALSO REPORTED THAT THE BUILDING WAS DESTROYED. WE HAVE BEEN INFORMED THAT POLICE UNITS AND SALVADORAN RED CROSS OFFICIALS ARE AT THE SCENE.</p></body></html>