<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0738"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0738"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0738</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0738 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 14 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] OUR FORCES HAVE ALSO ENGAGED TROOPS POSTED AT THE PRESIDENTE HOTEL AND IN ITS VICINITY, BUT ONCE AGAIN RESPECTED THE U.S. AMBASSADOR'S RESIDENCE. DURING THE ENTIRE MANEUVER WE INFLICTED APPROXIMATELY 20 CASUALTIES ON THE ENEMY, BUT WE DID NOT LOSE ANY MEN.</p><p>MEANWHILE, WE HAVE HAD REPORTS FROM SAN SALVADOR THAT THE AIR FORCE IS BOMBING HEAVILY DENSELY POPULATED AREAS IN THE SECTOR OF CIUDAD DELGADO. COMMANDER CARLOS ANNOUNCED THIS AT A NEWS CONFERENCE IN SAN SALVADOR: A GOVERNMENT THAT BOMBS THE PEOPLE IS AN ILLEGITIMATE GOVERNMENT; A GOVERNMENT FACING THOUSANDS OF SALVADORANS IN ARMS IS AN ILLEGITIMATE GOVERNMENT; AND A GOVERNMENT THAT MASSACRES THE PEOPLE IS AN ILLEGITIMATE GOVERNMENT; AND AN ILLEGITIMATE GOVERNMENT MUST BE TOPPLED BY OUR FORCES.</p><p>NOW, WE HAVE A LAST-MINUTE REPORT FROM SAN SALVADOR. AT THIS VERY MOMENT, AN O-2 AIRPLANE IS THROWING ROCKETS AT THE AREA OF ZACAMIL, WHERE HEAVY FIGHTING IS UNDER WAY. IT HAS BEEN REPORTED THAT THERE HAVE BEEN CIVILIAN CASUALTIES IN THIS ATTACK. IT HAS ALSO BEEN CONFIRMED THAT THE THREE ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIERS THAT WERE DESTROYED IN ZACAMIL WERE DESTROYED ON THE STREET THAT JOINS THE ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD WITH THE METROPOLI NEIGHBORHOOD.</p><p>IN ANOTHER REPORT FROM OUR COMPANEROS IN SOYAPANGO, THEY HAVE INFORMED US THAT THEY HAVE SEEN A U.S. ADVISER LEADING THE TROOPS IN THE SECTOR OF SOYAPANGO. IT IS PRESUMED THAT THIS NORTH AMERICAN IS THE ONE WHO IS DIRECTING THE AIR ATTACK IN THE SECTOR OF SOYAPANGO. C-47 AIRPLANES AS WELL AS UH-1M, HUEY 500, AND UH-1H HELICOPTERS, ALL U.S. MADE, HAVE BEEN THROWING ROCKETS ON AND MACHINEGUNNING THE SECTORS OF SOYAPANGO AND CIUDAD DELGADO. THE FASCIST REGIME OF LA TANDONA [NAME GIVEN TO 1966 GRADUATES OF CAPTAIN GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY ACADEMY], CRISTIANI, AND D'AUBUISSON HAVE DECREED A CURFEW IN ALL OF THE AREAS UNDER THE CONTROL OF OUR FORCES IN THE NORTHERN PART OF SAN SALVADOR TO ENSURE THAT THERE ARE NO WITNESSES OF THEIR INDISCRIMINATE BOMBING. WE ISSUE AN URGENT CALL TO THE RED CROSS AND OTHER HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS TO GO TO SOYAPANGO, WHERE THERE HAVE BEEN DOZENS OF CIVILIAN CASUALTIES. WE ALSO ISSUE AN URGENT APPEAL TO THE DEMOCRATIC LATIN AMERICAN GOVERNMENTS SO THAT THEY CAN [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE FASCIST GOVERNMENT OF ALFREDO CRISTIANI, TO GET HIM TO STOP THIS INDISCRIMINATE BOMBING ONCE AND FOR ALL.</p><p>A REPORT FROM THE CAPITAL STATES THAT FMLN FORCES THIS AFTERNOON ARE ATTACKING ZACAMIL BATTALION POSITIONS AND HARRASSING THE ARMED FORCES' JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF. ON THIS 4TH DAY OF FIGHTING IN THE CAPITAL, ROADBLOCKS CONTINUE TO MULTIPLY THROUGHOUT. THIS IS THE SECOND ATTACK ON THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF IN LESS THAN 24 HOURS.</p><p>AS REPORTED ON THE EVENING OF 13 NOVEMBER, WE ATTACKED THE SAN BENITO BATTALION AT THE NATIONAL FAIR GROUNDS AND THE FORCES GUARDING THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF. THIS IS THE SECOND HARRASSMENT ATTACK ON THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF. THIS COMPLICATES THE ARMED FORCES' SITUATION IN THE CAPITAL BECAUSE THE ENEMY ARMED FORCES' TOP LEADERSHIP IS BEING ATTACKED AND HARRASSED. FMLN FORCES ARE BESIEGING THE ENEMY.</p><p>AIR FORCE AIRCRAFTS CONTINUE TO OVERFLY THE NORTHERN AREA OF THE CAPITAL THIS AFTERNOON. THEY CONTINUE TO MACHINEGUN AND BOMB THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. MOMENTS AGO, WE REPORTED THAT THERE WAS HEAVY BOMBING IN ZACAMIL AGAINST THE POPULATION. WE CALL ON THE INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS COMMITTEE TO GO IMMEDIATELY TO ZACAMIL TO EVACUATE CIVILIANS WHO MIGHT HAVE SURVIVED THESE COWARDLY AND BLOODY AIR FORCE BOMBINGS.</p></body></html>