<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0170"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0170"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0170</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0170 (BELLCORE)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 13 APR 89 (RADIO SANDINO) -- [TEXT] THE GROUP OF 14 OPPOSITION PARTY DELEGATES HAVE RETURNED FROM GUATEMALA, WHERE THEY SIGNED AN ALLIANCE AGREEMENT WITH THE COUNTERREVOLUTIONARIES AND HOSTED A NEWS CONFERENCE AT THE INTERNATIONAL PRESS CLUB IN MANAGUA. GUILLERMO POTOY, DELEGATE FROM THE SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY, SAID THAT THE CONTRAS ARE WILLING TO LAY DOWN THEIR WEAPONS IF THERE IS DEMOCRATIZATION IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [POTOY] I BELIEVE THAT THE NICARAGUAN RESISTANCE WOULD BE WILLING TO COME TO NICARAGUA. JUDGING FROM WHAT THEY SAID, I BELIEVE THEY WOULD BE WILLING TO RETURN ONCE IT APPEARS THAT THERE IS DEMOCRATIZATION. THEY TRUST THE 14 OR 15 OPPOSITION POLITICAL PARTIES AND SUPPORT THE DECISIONS MADE BY THESE PARTIES CONCERNING THE ELECTIONS. IN EL SALVADOR, THE WAR INTENSIFIED DURING THE ELECTIONS, AND THOSE WHO FINANCED THE WAR CONTINUED TO FINANCE IT IN ORDER TO [WORDS INDISTINCT]. IN NICARAGUA, THE HUMANITARIAN AID ENSURES THAT NOT A SINGLE SHOT WILL BE FIRED. I BELIEVE THIS IS A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION. WE MUST BEGIN AT THE BEGINNING, WHICH IS WHERE WE SHOULD HAVE BEEN, AND NOT WHERE WE ARE NOW. [SENTENCE AS HEARD]</p><p>JUST LOOK AT WHERE WE ARE NOW. WHAT HAS HAPPENED IN THE LAST FEW YEARS IN NICARAGUA? THERE HAS BEEN PLENTY OF WAR, MANY DEATHS. NOW A PEACE PROCESS HAS BEGUN IN NICARAGUA. THIS HELPS ENSURE THAT NOT A SINGLE SHOT WILL BE FIRED AND THAT THE ELECTIONS WILL BE HELD IN PEACE. THEN WE NICARAGUANS WILL BE ABLE TO COMPLY. IT IS UP TO THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT TO INSTITUTE DEMOCRACY IN NICARAGUA, WHICH WILL ENSURE AN AUTOMATIC END TO THE WAR. I BELIEVE THERE IS NO REASON WHY WE, THE NICARAGUAN CIVIC OPPOSITION, WOULD NOT BE WILLING TO JOIN ANY EFFORT ONCE DEMOCRACY HAS BEEN ACHIEVED IN NICARAGUA. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>