<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0484"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0484"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0484</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0484 (UMASS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 14 SEP 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] THE FRG EMBASSY IN BOGOTA TODAY REJECTED A REPORT THAT SOME OF ITS OFFICIALS ARE LINKED TO THE POWERFUL DRUG TRAFFICKING MAFIAS THAT OPERATE IN COLOMBIA.</p><p>THE REPORT WAS PUBLISHED IN THE GERMAN WEEKLY "WELT AM SONNTAG," WHICH BASED ITS INFORMATION ON FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS OFFICE SOURCES WHO STATED THAT SOME OFFICIALS IN THE DIPLOMATIC MISSION ASSIGNED TO BOGOTA ARE LINKED TO DRUG TRAFFICKING AND HAVE PARTICIPATED IN THE OPERATIONS OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, THE BIGGEST DRUG TRAFFICKING ORGANIZATION IN THE WORLD.</p><p>AN FRG EMBASSY SPOKESMAN WHO WAS QUESTIONED BY DPA SAID: "WE KNOW NOTHING ABOUT A MISSION MEMBER WHO HAS BEEN LINKED TO DRUG TRAFFICKING."</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE GERMAN PUBLICATION, APPROXIMATELY $20 MILLION OBTAINED BY THE MEDELLIN CARTEL FOR THEIR ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES HAVE BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM BANKS IN COLOMBIA TO FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS IN PANAMA AND LUXEMBOURG.</p><p>LAST WEEK, THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT, WHICH HAS DECLARED "WAR" ON THE COCAINE GANGS, EXTRADITED TO THE UNITED STATES EDUARDO MARTINEZ ROMERO, THE ALLEGED "FINANCIAL HEAD" OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL. ROMERO IS ACCUSED OF BEING THE "BRAIN" BEHIND THE CARTEL'S MONEY-LAUNDERING OPERATIONS.</p><p>AT PRESENT, MARTINEZ ROMERO IS BEING CHARGED AT AN ATLANTA COURT FOR ALLEGEDLY LAUNDERING MORE THAN $1.2 BILLION IN THE BANCO DE OCCIDENTE DE PANAMA. ACCORDING TO "WELT AM SONNTAG," THIS BANK SENT THE DRUG TRAFFICKING FUNDS TO THE DEUTSCH-SUEDAMERIKANISCHE BANK.</p><p>THE DRUG TRAFFICKER'S EXTRADITION HAS CAUSED TENSION AND ANXIETY IN COLOMBIA BECAUSE THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS ISSUED A COMMUNIQUE WHEREIN THEY THREATENED TO KILL 10 JUDGES FOR EACH COLOMBIAN SENT TO ANOTHER COUNTRY.</p><p>THE FRG EMBASSY SPOKESMAN ADDED THAT THE ALLEGED LINKS OF EMBASSY OFFICIALS WITH THE MAFIA "WERE INVENTED BY A NEWS AGENCY -- NOT DPA -- THAT WROTE THE INFORMATION IN BONN." THE INFORMATION WAS LATER PUBLISHED BY "WELT AM SONNTAG," WHICH, THE SPOKESMAN SAID, WAS A NEWSPAPER "THAT WAS NOT VERY IMPORTANT."</p><p>SO FAR, THE "WAR" BEING CARRIED OUT BY COLOMBIAN OFFICIALS HAS LED TO THE CAPTURE OF SEVERAL PEOPLE WHO ARE CONNECTED TO THE DRUG CARTEL AND THE CONFISCATION OF NUMEROUS PROPERTIES BELONGING TO THE "CAPOS" PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA AND GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA, THE BIGGEST MAFIOSOS IN THE WORLD, ACCORDING TO WASHINGTON AND BOGOTA.</p></body></html>