<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0438"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0438"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0438</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0438 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 6 SEP 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] THIS STATION HAS JUST CONFIRMED THAT EDUARDO MARTINEZ ROMERO, REPORTED TO BE THE FINANCIAL WIZARD OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, WAS EXTRADITED TO THE UNITED STATES TODAY.</p><p>IN A FEW HOURS, AN ATLANTA, GEORGIA COURT WILL RECEIVE MARTINEZ, WHO HAS BEEN EXTRADITED BY THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT AFTER HE WAS INDICTED BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT ON CHARGES THAT HE LAUNDERED $1.1 BILLION. INCLUDING MARTINEZ, 15 COLOMBIANS HAVE BEEN EXTRADITED TO THE UNITED STATES, 14 OF THEM DURING THE PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT'S TENURE, WHILE THE EXTRADITION TREATY WITH THE UNITED STATES WAS IN FORCE.</p><p>THE FIRST EXTRADITION WAS EFFECTED ON THE SAME GROUNDS AS THAT SERVING TO JUSTIFY THIS MEASURE TOWARD MARTINEZ-- MONEY LAUNDERING. AFTER BOTERO [NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED], THE MOST FAMOUS CASES WERE THOSE OF CARLOS LEHDER, WHOSE EXTRADITION WAS ARRANGED FOR IN LESS THAN 24 HOURS. WHEN THE SUPREME COURT DECLARED THE TREATY UNENFORCEABLE, EXTRADITIONS WERE SUSPENDED UNTIL TODAY, WHEN A NEW INSTRUMENT WAS UTILIZED. THIS INSTRUMENT WAS ANNOUNCED BY PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO THE SAME NIGHT PRESIDENTIAL HOPEFUL LUIS CARLOS GALAN WAS MURDERED. THIS IS AN ADMINISTRATIVE RECOURSE THAT EMPOWERS THE PRESIDENT TO MAKE ALL DECISIONS.</p></body></html>