<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0268"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0268"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0268</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0268 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>LA PAZ, 29 JUN 89 (RADIO FIDES) -- [EXCERPTS] DIEGO MORALES, LEADER OF COCHABAMBA'S PEASANT FEDERATION, IS SERIOUSLY INJURED AND IN A COMA. HE IS BEING TREATED AT A CHIMORE HOSPITAL. UMOPAR [MOBILE UNITS FOR RURAL AREAS] AGENTS FIRED MACHINEGUNS AT THE AREA FROM HELICOPTERS TO SCARE THE LOCAL POPULATION AFTER COCA PRODUCERS BLOCKED THE ROAD TO STOP AN UMOPAR VEHICLE TO FIRE.</p><p>HUGO ZALAZAR FROM THE SINGLE TRADE UNION CONFEDERATION OF BOLIVIAN PEASANT WORKERS SAID THAT UMOPAR AGENTS PROTECT DRUG TRAFFICKERS. THE CONFEDERATION WILL CONVENE A NATIONAL EMERGENCY MEETING TO PROTECT COCA GROWERS FROM VIOLENT UMOPAR RAIDS. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>THE BOLIVIAN LABOR CONFEDERATION [COB] CONDEMEND THE RAIDS AND DENIED THAT PEASANTS HAD AMBUSHED THE UMOPAR PATROL. COB LEADER ALEJANDRO GUZMAN REPORTS:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [GUZMAN] I MUST SAY THAT THE REPORT OF AN ALLEGED AMBUSH IS COMPLETELY FALSE. PEASANTS HAVE NOT CAPTURED UMOPAR OR DEA HOSTAGES. THERE WAS, HOWEVER, A VIOLENT ATTACK AGAINST COMPANERO DIEGO MORALES ON HIS LAND, IN FRONT OF OTHER COCA GROWERS. [END RECORDING] [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>UMOPAR FORCES HAVE ALSO ARRESTED 30 PEASANTS IN PUERTO SAN FRANCISCO, CHAPARE, AFTER A POLICE PATROL WAS FORCED TO RELEASE 2 DRUG TRAFFICKERS AND HAD TO FLEE FROM A CROWD OF NEARLY 1,000 PEASANTS.</p><p>SOCIAL DEFENSE UNDER SECRETARY GENARO MARQUEZ SAID THE INCIDENT OCCURRED AFTER A MINE-MAN UMOPAR PATROL CAPTURED TWO DRUG TRAFFICKERS. THE PEASANTS INTERCEPTED THE VEHICLE IN WHICH THE TWO DRUG TRAFFICKERS WERE BEING TAKEN TO CHIMORE. THE POLICE AGENTS HAD TO RELEASE THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS AFTER THE PEASANTS THREATENED TO SHOOT THEM.</p><p>THE CROWD CONTINUED TO THREATEN THE PATROL, FORCING THE UMOPAR AGENTS TO FLEE INTO THE WOODS. THE PEASANTS -- SOME 400 STRONG -- BURNED THE UMOPAR PICKUP AND CHASED THE POLICE INTO THE WOODS.</p><p>UNDER SECRETARY GENARO MARQUEZ EXPLAINTS:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MARQUEZ] YESTERDAY, UMOPAR RAIDED SOME AREAS DURING THE MORNING AND CLASHED WITH A LARGE GROUP OF PEASANTS IN PUERTO SAN FRANCISCO, WHO ATTACKED THE PATROL AFTER LEARNING WHAT HAPPENED TO DIEGO MORALES. THE AGENTS HAD TO RELEASE TWO DRUG TRAFFICKERS THEY WERE BRINGING WITH THEM. THEY WERE ABLE TO FLEE THE AREA AFTER SOME DIFFICULTIES BUT WILL CONTINUE INVESTIGATING. [PASSAGE OMITTED] [END RECORDING]</p><p>MARQUEZ SAID THE 30 ARRESTED PEASANTS WILL BE QUESTIONED TO DETERMINE THEIR RESPONSIBILITY IN THE INCIDENT AND THOSE WHO ARE INNOCENT WILL BE RELEASED. MARQUEZ ALSO SAID POLICE SEIZED ARMS AND STICKS OF DYNAMITE.</p></body></html>