<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0648"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0648"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0648</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0648 (GE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 7 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [INTERVIEW WITH VENANCIO SALVATIERRA, WITH NOM DE GUERRE OF MARIO LOPEZ, A COMMANDER OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, FMLN, BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [REPORTER] COMMANDER MARIO LOPEZ, FOLLOWING RECENT INCIDENTS AND TERRORIST ACTIONS SUCH AS THE ATTACK ON FENASTRAS [SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION], THE U.S. OFFICIAL ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS BERNARD ARONSON CAME TO OUR COUNTRY. HE SAID THAT U.S. ASSISTANCE WILL DEPEND [WORDS INDISTINCT]. WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT HIS VISIT TO OUR COUNTRY?</p><p>[SALVATIERRA] IT IS BASICALLY AIMED AT SAVING CRISTIANI'S PRESTIGE AND IMAGE, AS THIS HAS BEEN A MATTER OF GREAT CONCERN FOR THE U.S. GOVERNMENT FROM THE BEGINNING. THEY NEED A POTABLE IMAGE, AN IMAGE THAT PORTRAYS LEGITIMACY, AND AN IMAGE OF MODERATION THAT WILL NOT ISOLATE THE GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONALLY. THE FENASTRAS INCIDENT UNDOUBTEDLY UNMASKED CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT. THEREFORE, ARONSON'S VISIT IS AIMED AT SAVING CRISTIANI'S IMAGE AND SUPPORTING CRISTIANI'S INITIATIVE OF CREATING A COMMISSION TO INVESTIGATE THOSE INCIDENTS, IN ORDER TO FOSTER HOPES AND CREDIBILITY AMONG SOME GROUPS REGARDING THE GOVERNMENT'S INTEREST IN CLARIFYING THE INCIDENTS. THAT WAS ARONSON'S INTENTION.</p><p>AS A MATTER OF FACT, CRISTIANI'S IMAGE IS IMPORTANT FOR THE AID ITSELF. ASPECTS RELATED TO HUMAN RIGHTS PLAY A VERY IMPORTANT ROLE IN THE DEBATES AT THE U.S. CONGRESS, WHERE THE AID IS APPROVED. THEREFORE, THAT AID WOULD BE ENDANGERED IF THE DEBATES ON VIOLATIONS OF HUMAN RIGHTS IN EL SALVADOR ARE INTENSIFIED. IT COULD HAVE AN EFFECT ON THAT. SO WHAT THEY ARE REALLY TRYING TO SAVE IS THE AID TO CONTINUE SUPPORTING THE WAR.</p><p>IN THAT REGARD, WE MUST ALSO REMEMBER THAT WITHIN THE DOCTRINE OF LOW INTENSITY WARFARE, THE POLITICAL ASPECTS OF THE COUNTERINSURGENCY PLAN PLAY AN IMPORTANT ROLE [WORDS INDISTINCT] THAT WILL NOT APPEAR TO BE IN THE EXTREME RIGHT; A GOVERNMENT THAT APPEARS TO BE MORE IN THE CENTER THAN IN THE EXTREME RIGHT, IN ORDER TO CREATE EXPECTATIONS WITHIN SOME GROUPS REGARDING THE GOVERNMENT'S CREDIBILITY, AND ALSO AT THE INTERNATIONAL LEVEL. WHILE TRYING TO DEFEAT THE REBELS MILITARILY AND THROUGH REPRESSION, IT IS NECESSARY TO MAINTAIN AN ACCEPTABLE IMAGE OF THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>[REPORTER] YOU ARE A MEMBER OF THE FMLN'S POLITICAL-DIPLOMATIC COMMISSION. AS A RESULT OF THE FENASTRAS INCIDENTS, OUR FRONT CANCELLED ITS ATTENDANCE AT THE CARACAS MEETING. WHAT ARE THE POSSIBILITIES FOR RESTORING THE TALKS AND CONTINUING THE DIALOGUE - NEGOTIATION WITH THE GOVERNMENT?</p><p>[SALVATIERRA] THE FMLN IS INTERESTED IN A REAL DIALOGUE, A DIALOGUE THAT WILL LEAD TO A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION OF THE CONFLICT; IN OTHER WORDS, A DIALOGUE THAT WILL LEAD TO NEGOTIATIONS. WE DIFFER WITH CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT ON THIS. FROM THE BEGINNING, ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] HAS EXPRESSED ITS WILLINGNESS TO PARTICIPATE IN A DIALOGUE, BUT NOT TO NEGOTIATE. THEY HAVE A TOTALLY DIFFERENT CONCEPT. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>