<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0549"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0549"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0549</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0549 (UMASS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 6 OCT 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] THE MEDIATION OF ARCHBISHOP ARTURO RIVERA Y DAMAS COULD END THE OCCUPATION BY 20 MEMBERS OF AN OPPOSITION HUMANITARIAN GROUP OF THE COSTA RICAN EMBASSY IN SAN SALVADOR IN THE NEXT FEW HOURS.</p><p>THE GROUP BELONGING TO THE FEDERATION OF COMMITTEES OF MOTHERS AND RELATIVES OF POLITICAL PRISONERS, MISSING, AND MURDERED PEOPLE (FECMAFAN) OCCUPIED THE EMBASSY ON 5 OCTOBER TO DEMAND "AN END TO THE GOVERNMENT'S REPRESSIVE ESCALATION."</p><p>ON THE EVENING OF 5 OCTOBER, THE SALVADORAN PRELATE VISITED THE BUILDING WHERE COSTA RICAN AMBASSADOR JESUS FERNANDEZ, CONSUL HUMBERTO MURILLO, AND FIRST SECRETARY LUIS DE ANDA ARE BEING HELD HOSTAGE TO PERSONALLY ASSESS THE SITUATION INSIDE IN THE DIPLOMATIC HEADQUARTERS.</p><p>AMBASSADOR FERNANDEZ MET WITH THE ARCHBISHOP ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF THE "LA CENTROAMERICANA" BUILDING, WHICH HOUSES THE COSTA RICAN EMBASSY, BUT MILITARY MEN DID NOT ALLOW HIM TO REACH THE THIRD FLOOR WHERE EMBASSY OFFICES ACTUALLY ARE.</p><p>RIVERA Y DAMAS POINTED OUT THAT "I NEED TO OBTAIN AN ARMY PERMIT TO ENTER THE EMBASSY."</p><p>POLICE DEPUTY DIRECTOR COLONEL ALEJANDRO SANCHEZ SAID THAT THE CONFLICT COULD END IN THE NEXT FEW HOURS.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES HAVE RULED OUT MILITARY INTERVENTION TO EVICT THE EMBASSY OCCUPANTS, BUT ARE USING "DISSUASIVE" ACTIONS TO PROMPT THEM TO LEAVE.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE GROUP MAINTAINS THAT IT WILL NOT END ITS OCCUPATION "UNTIL THE COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT MEDIATES TO ENSURE THAT OUR COUNTRY'S GOVERNMENT WILL END THE REPRESSION" AND THE ANTIRIOT POLICE LEAVE THE AREA.</p><p>NINE YOUNG WOMEN AND 11 YOUNG MEN ARE INVOLVED IN THE OCCUPATION. SOME OF THEM ARE "CARRYING WEAPONS," CONSUL HUMBERTO MURILLO SAID.</p><p>FECMAFAN CALLED FOR A MARCH THIS MORNING BEGINNING AT THE "LAS AMERICAS" PLAZA, ABOUT 200 METERS FROM THE COSTA RICAN EMBASSY, TO DEMAND THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT "RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS" AND END THE EMBASSY OCCUPATION.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE ARMED FORCES TODAY BEEFED UP SECURITY IN SAN SALVADOR BY POSTING ADDITIONAL TROOPS ON AVENUES AND AT BUILDINGS, AND SEARCHING VEHICLES AS PART OF OPERATION "ATLACATL II," WHICH IS BEING IMPLEMENTED THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY TO PREVENT "TERRORIST" ACTIONS. [PARIS AFP IN SPANISH AT 1617 GMT REPORTS THAT COSTA RICAN AMBASSADOR JESUS FERNANDEZ WAS PICKED UP BY AN AMBULANCE ON 5 OCTOBER TO BE TREATED FOR A HEART AILMENT. IT ADDS THAT ONE OF NINE REPORTERS STILL INSIDE THE EMBASSY CALLED LOCAL STATIONS TO REPORT THAT THE POLICE DID NOT ALLOW THEM TO RECEIVE FOOD PROVIDED BY THE GREEN CROSS]</p></body></html>