<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0884"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0884"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0884</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0884 (GTE)</p><p>BOGOTA, 27 NOV 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] POLICE SOURCES HAVE DESCRIBED THE ANNONYMOUS TELEPHONE CALL TO RADIO CADENA CARACOL BLAMING "THE EXTRADITABLES" DRUG TRAFFICKING GROUP FOR THE EXPLOSION ON BOARD AN AVIANCA BOEING 727 AS "LACKING CREDIBILITY." THE PLANE WAS ON A FLIGHT FROM BOGOTA TO CALI WITH 107 PERSONS ABOARD. THE ANNONYMOUS CALLER SAID THAT "THE EXTRADITABLES" HAD PLANTED A BOMB ON THAT PLANE BECAUSE "FIVE INFORMERS" WERE ABOARD.</p><p>HOWEVER, POLICE SOURCES CONSULTED BY EFE WERE SKEPTICAL, DESCRIBING WHAT THE ANNONYMOUS CALLER HAD SAID AS LACKING CREDIBILITY. ANOTHER POLICE SOURCE TOLD EFE THAT THE ANNONYMOUS PHONE CALL BLAMING "THE EXTRADITABLES" FOR THE EXPLOSION SOUNDED MORE LIKE A JOKE IN BAD TASTE. HE ADDED THAT THE CALL DOES NOT FOLLOW THE NORMAL PATTERN USED BY THAT GROUP WHEN CLAIMING RESPONSIBILITY FOR ITS ACTIONS. THE GROUP USUALLY SENDS COMMUNIQUES TO THE MEDIA. THESE COMMUNIQUES ARE WRITTEN ON PAPER WITH THE GROUP'S LETTERHEAD AND ARE DULY SIGNED, AND AT TIMES INCLUDE THE FINGERPRINTS OF THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR SENDING THE COMMUNIQUE.</p><p>A SPOKESPERSON AT EL DORADO INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT IN BOGOTA, FROM WHERE THE PLANE TOOK OFF, SAID THAT IT WAS PRACTICALLY IMPOSSIBLE FOR SOMEONE TO HAVE EVADED THE STRICT SECURITY AT THE AIRPORT. THE SOURCE ADDED THAT THE PASSENGERS AND THE LUGGAGE UNDERWENT ROUTINE BUT RIGOROUS SECURITY CHECKS. THESE SECURITY CHECKS INCLUDE HAND CHECKS AND THE USE OF ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT AND EXPLOSIVES-DETECTING DOGS. THE SOURCE ADDED THAT NOTHING UNUSUAL WAS NOTICED.</p><p>"THE EXTRADITABLES" IS AN ARMED GROUP UNDER THE MEDELLIN CARTEL THAT FOR THE PAST 6 YEARS HAS BEEN FIGHTING AGAINST THE EXTRADITION OF COLOMBIANS TO THE UNITED STATES. UP TO NOW THE CRIMES THAT THE GROUP HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR, AND OTHERS FOR WHICH IT IS BLAMED, HAVE ALL FALLEN UNDER THE CATEGORY OF SELECTIVE MURDERS BUT NEVER AN INDISCRIMINATE ATTACK LIKE DESTROYING A PLANE.</p><p>CIVIL AERONAUTICS DIRECTORATE SOURCES SAID THAT THE BLACK BOX HAS BEEN FOUND AND THAT ITS CONTENTS WILL PROBABLY REVEAL WHAT HAPPENED.</p><p>THE SOURCES ADDED THAT 8 HOURS AFTER THE TRAGEDY, THERE ARE STILL NO CLUES THAT WOULD ALLOW THEM TO BE ABSOLUTELY SURE WHETHER THIS WAS AN ATTACK OR AN ACCIDENT.</p><p>MOST OF THE PASSENGERS ON BOARD THE PLANE WERE GOVERNMENT AND PRIVATE BUSINESSMEN WHO WERE TRAVELING FROM BOGOTA TO CALI, IN THE SOUTHEASTERN SECTOR OF THE COUNTRY, FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.</p></body></html>