<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0370"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0370"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0370</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0370 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 23 AUG 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [REPORT] [ANA SOFIA GIRALDO] [TEXT] FORMER GOVERNMENT MINISTER CESAR GAVIRIA TRUJILLO WAS UNANIMOUSLY PROCLAIMED TODAY PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE FOR THE NEW LIBERALISM [MOVEMENT WITHIN THE LIBERAL PARTY].</p><p>GAVIRIA, WHO BECAME ONE OF THE MAJOR CONTENDERS FOR THE PRESIDENCY OVERNIGHT, SPOKE TODAY.</p><p>GAVIRIA EXPERIENCED ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT MOMENTS OF HIS POLITICAL CAREER WHEN HE WAS NOMINATED CANDIDATE OF THE NEW LIBERALISM MOVEMENT. IT IS ALSO PERHAPS ONE OF THE MOST DIFFICULT TIMES IN HIS PERSONAL LIFE BECAUSE HE RECEIVED THE BANNERS OF LUIS CARLOS GALAN, WHO WAS KILLED LAST FRIDAY. HE SAID THE DEATH OF THE LEADER CANNOT BE USED TO ELIMINATE THE SYSTEM OF CONSULTING WITH THE PEOPLE, WHICH WAS HIS GREATEST POLITICAL ACHIEVEMENT. HE SAID FORMER PRESIDENT JULIO CESAR TURBAY AYALA IS WILLING TO ISSUE SPECIAL A RESOLUTION TO ALLOW THE REGISTRATION OF THE NEW CANDIDACY.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [GAVIRIA] IF YOU ALL SUPPORT ME IN THIS EFFORT, IN THE MIDST OF THIS GREAT RESPONSIBILITY, IN THE MIDST OF THE CRISIS IN OUR INSTITUTION THAT IS ENDANGERING OUR DEMOCRACY, I AM SURE JUST AS YOU ARE THAT WE ARE GOING TO BE SUCCESSFUL. I AM NOT TALKING ABOUT THE ELECTIONS, BUT I AM TALKING ABOUT MAKING COLOMBIA SUCCESSFUL. LUIS CARLOS GALAN WILL GUIDE US FROM HEAVEN SO THAT WE CAN MAKE COLOMBIA BETTER. [END RECORDING]</p><p>HE SAID THAT EVEN THOUGH HE IS AFRAID HE WILL STILL GO OUT TO PUBLIC PLACES TO FIGHT TERRORISM. HE SAID HE IS WILLING TO RESPECT THE RULES OF THE GAME OF THE NEW LIBERALISM. GAVIRIA WILL NOW HAVE FULL AUTHORITY TO APPOINT MEMBERS OF HIS CAMPAIGN.</p><p>EVEN THOUGH IT WAS NOT EASY FOR SOME OF GALAN'S FRIENDS TO ACCEPT THE NEW LEADER OF THEIR MOVEMENT, THEY KNOW THAT GALAN IS NO LONGER HERE, AND GAVIRIA IS THE NEW LEADER.</p></body></html>