<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1151"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1151"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1151</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1151 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 6 MAR 90 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [JOINT COMMAND OF THE MODESTO RAMIREZ CENTRAL FRONT] [TEXT] ONE MILITARY HELICOPTER WAS SHOT DOWN TODAY WHILE ANOTHER ONE WAS DAMAGED IN QUEBRANDA HONDA NEAR CHALATENANGO CITY. THEREFORE, THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] WISHES TO INFORM OUR PEOPLE OF THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>1. THE ANTI-AIRCRAFT CLASH TOOK PLACE DURING A MILITARY OPERATION WHICH THE DM-1 [MILITARY DETACHMENT 1] IS CARRYING OUT IN THAT SECTOR.</p><p>2. EARLY IN THE MORNING WE FOUGHT WITH DM-1 TROOPS, WHO WERE SUPPORTED BY SALVADORAN AIR FORCE HELICOPTERS.</p><p>3. WITHIN THIS FRAMEWORK, OUR ANTI-AIRCRAFT UNITS FIRED ON TWO MILITARY HELICOPTERS THAT HAD FIRED ROCKETS AND MACHINEGUNNED THE AREA. OUR UNITS SHOT DOWN ONE AND SERIOUSLY DAMAGED ANOTHER HELICOPTER.</p><p>4. THESE ACTIONS TOOK PLACE NEAR THE CAPITAL OF CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT, AND NOT NEAR THE GUANCORA LAND SETTLEMENT.</p><p>5. LATER, WE LEARNED FROM PUBLIC REPORTS THAT ONE OF THE HELICOPTERS WAS CARRYING A TEAM OF JOURNALISTS AND ATTORNEY GENERAL MAURICIO COLORADO ALONG WITH THE TROOPS. TO THAT EFFECT, WE REGRET THE INJURIES INFLICTED ON THE JOURNALISTS, TO WHOM WE REITERATE OUR RECOMMENDATION THAT THEY SHOULD NOT TRAVEL ON ANY MILITARY VEHICLES OR AIRCRAFT. WE EXTEND THIS WARNING TO ALL CIVILIANS AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.</p></body></html>