<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0986"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0986"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="WASHINGTON DC (USA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0986</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0986 (SRI)</p><p>WASHINGTON DC (USA), 13 DEC 89 (BEIJING XINHUA) -- [TEXT] U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH WILL GO TO VIOLENCE-TORN COLOMBIA ON FEBRUARY 15 FOR A FOUR-NATION SUMMIT ON ILLEGAL DRUGS, THE WHITE HOUSE ANNOUNCED TODAY.</p><p>WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN MARLIN FITZWATER SAID BUSH WILL MEET IN CARTAGENA, A PORT CITY ABOUT 640 KILOMETERS NORTH OF BOGOTA, WITH COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO, BOLIVIAN PRESIDENT JAIME PAZ ZAMORA AND PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA.</p><p>FITZWATER SAID BUSH IS GOING TO SHOW HIS SUPPORT FOR BARCO, WHO HAS WAGED A NATION-WIDE WAR AGAINST DRUG LORDS SINCE LAST AUGUST.</p><p>COLOMBIAN COCAINE LORDS HAVE SET OFF MORE THAN 260 BOMBS, KILLING AT LEAST 190 PEOPLE, IN RETALIATION FOR THE GOVERNMENT'S CRACKDOWN.</p><p>A U.S. ADVANCE TEAM, HEADED BY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE BERNARD ARONSON, HAS BEEN SENT TO COLOMBIA TO COMPLETE PLANS FOR THE SUMMIT.</p><p>THE FORMAL ANNOUNCEMENT FOLLOWED BUSH'S SIGNING LEGISLATION EARLIER TODAY AUTHORIZING 240 MILLION DOLLARS IN AID TO THE THREE ANDEAN NATIONS, WHICH ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR AN ESTIMATED 80 PERCENT OF THE COCAINE THAT MAKES ITS WAY INTO THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>THE LEGISLATION AUTHORIZES SPENDING 125 MILLION DOLLARS FOR MILITARY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT AID AND 115 MILLION DOLLARS FOR NARCOTICS CONTROL ASSISTANCE.</p><p>THE MEETING IS EXPECTED TO LAST ONE DAY.</p></body></html>