<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1192"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1192"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1192</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1192 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 22 MAR 90 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] IN PREVIOUS BROADCASTS WE REPORTED HONDURAN TROOP INCURSIONS INTO SALVADORAN TERRITORY. WE HAVE RECEIVED NEW REPORTS OF SUCH INCURSIONS.</p><p>HONDURAN TROOPS ENTERED 2 KM INSIDE SALVADORAN TERRITORY, IN ZANCUDO VILLAGE, IN THE AREA OF SABANETAS CANTON, PERQUIN JURISDICTION, AT 1200 ON 19 MARCH. THEY TOOK 22-YEAR-OLD GILBERTO MOLASCO, SON OF PATRICIO RODRIGUEZ, AND 17-YEAR-OLD ANDRES ARGUETA, SON OF EMIMESIO ARGUETA. THEY WERE TAKEN FROM THEIR HOMES AND THEIR WHEREABOUTS ARE UNKNOWN.</p><p>ON 17 MARCH, THE TROOPS ARRIVED IN PALO BLANCO VILLAGE AND THEY SEARCHED THE HOUSE OF LEONOR VELIZ, THREATING TO CAPTURE HER SON, CRISTIANO BENITEZ. THEY BEAT HIM UP, ACCUSING HIM OF BEING A GUERRILLA, AND THEY STOLE THEIR DOCUMENTS AND MONEY. THEY ALSO TOLD THEM NOT TO REPORT THE ACTION TO THE RED CROSS, THREATING TO KILL THEM IF THEY DID SO.</p><p>THE RESIDENTS OF THESE BORDER VILLAGES ISSUE AN APPEAL TO THE INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS BECAUSE THEY ARE CONCERNED ABOUT THE FATE OF THE TWO YOUTHS CAPTURED BY HONDURAN ARMY TROOPS.</p></body></html>