<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0023"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0023"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0023</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0023 (NOSC)</p><p>LIMA, 11 JAN 90 -- [TEXT] THE MRTA [TUPAC AMARU REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT] TODAY DISTRIBUTED LEAFLETS CLAIMING RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE MURDER OF FORMER DEFENSE MINISTER ENRIQUE LOPEZ ALBUJAR.</p><p>GENERAL OSVALDO DIAZ SALVADOR, CHIEF OF THE 7TH SUBREGION OF THE NATIONAL POLICE, HAS CONFIRMED THE EXISTENCE OF THE LEAFLETS, AND ADDED THAT THE MURDER CASE IS STILL BEING INVESTIGATED. HE SAID THAT AMONG THE THOUSANDS OF DETAINEES THERE ARE 16 SUSPECTS WHO ARE BELIEVED TO HAVE PARTICIPATED IN THE MURDER OF THE OUTSTANDING GENERAL.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [DIAZ SALVADOR] WELL, THERE ARE TWO OPERATIONS. FIRST, THE DRAGNET OPERATION, IN WHICH PEOPLE WITH THE CHARACTERISTICS ESTABLISHED BY WITNESSES ARE ARRESTED, AND SECOND, THERE IS A MORE SPECIFIC OPERATION BEING CONDUCTED BY THE SPECIALIZED UNITS.</p><p>[REPORTER] IS THERE ANY INFORMATION YET REGARDING THE CAPTURE OF THE MURDERERS OF THE FORMER DEFENSE MINISTER?</p><p>[DIAZ SALVADOR] THESE OPERATIONS SEEK TO CLEAR UP BOTH A CRIME THAT HAS SHOCKED THE NATION AND ALSO THE KILLING OF TWO PATROLMEN WHO WERE MURDERED IN COLD BLOOD THE DAY BEFORE THE GENERAL WAS MURDERED.</p><p>[REPORTER] DO THE POLICE HAVE IDENTIKITS OF THE MURDERERS?</p><p>[DIAZ SALVADOR] WE HAVE RECEIVED SOME IDENTIKITS OF PEOPLE WHO COULD HAVE PARTICIPATED IN THE ATTACK FROM THE SPECIALIZED UNITS OF THE TECHNICAL POLICE. BASED ON THESE IDENTIKITS THE POLICE WILL BE MORE SPECIFIC AND SELECTIVE.</p><p>[REPORTER] HOW MANY IDENTIKITS DO YOU HAVE SO FAR?</p><p>[DIAZ SALVADOR] SO FAR WE HAVE RECEIVED THREE IDENTIKITS.</p><p>[REPORTER] THE MURDER IS ATTRIBUTED TO MRTA AND NOT TO THE SHINING PATH. WHAT NEWS DO THE HAVE ON THIS?</p><p>[DIAZ SALVADOR] I BELIEVE THE INTELLIGENCE SERVICES WILL HAVE THE FINAL WORD ON THIS.</p><p>[REPORTER] IS IT TRUE THAT THE MRTA HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE MURDER?</p><p>[DIAZ SALVADOR] WELL, WE ALL KNOW THAT SOME LEAFLETS HAVE APPEARED TODAY INSIDE A NEWSPAPER THAT CLAIMS TO BE THE MOUTHPIECE ON THIS MATTER, BUT I DO NOT THINK THIS IS FINAL. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>