<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0207"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0207"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0207</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0207 (ADS)</p><p>LIMA, 14 MAY 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE PERUVIAN POLICE TODAY ARRESTED 10 PEOPLE SUSPECTED OF HAVING DETONATED A CAR BOMB SOME 300 METERS FROM GOVERNMENT HOUSE WHERE PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA AND HIS FAMILY WERE SLEEPING.</p><p>THE POLICE REPORTED THAT THE POWERFUL SHOCK WAVE DESTROYED WINDOWS AND DOORS IN A 400-METER RADIUS, BUT NO INJURIES WERE REPORTED.</p><p>THE POLICE ATTRIBUTED THE ATTACK TO THE TUPAC AMARU REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT (MRTA). THE EXPLOSION TOOK PLACE AT 0150 (0650 GMT) ON BLOCK NO. 3 ON ANCASH STREET, IN FRONT OF THE SAN FRANCISCO MONASTERY AND THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF CULTURE.</p><p>WITNESSES TOLD POLICE THAT THEY SAW THREE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MEN ADANDONING THE CAR, APPARENTLY ACTIVATING THE BOMB BY REMOTE CONTROL SOME 100 METERS AWAY. THE SUSPECTS THEN FLED IN ANOTHER CAR THAT WAS AWATING THEM.</p><p>THIS IS THE SECOND CAR BOMB PLANTED BY THE MRTA SINCE 7 MAY, WHEN THE TERRORIST GROUP BLEW UP ANOTHER VEHICLE IN FRONT OF THE SAN MARTIN MILITARY QUARTERS, AN ARMY ADMINISTRATIVE UNIT LOCATED IN THE LIMA DISCTRICT OF MIRAFLORES.</p><p>THE MRTA, WHICH HAS DETONATED ABOUT 20 CAR BOMBS, BEGAN ITS ACTIVITIES IN 1984. TWO WEEKS AGO, THE ARMY SHOT 65 MRTA MEMBERS IN A CLASH IN JAUJA, IN THE CENTRAL MOUNTIAN REGION.</p><p>IN RELATED DEVELOPMENTS, THE DEPARTMENTS OF PASCO, JUNIN, AND HUANUCO RETURNED TO NORMAL TODAY AFTER A 72-HOUR "ARMED STRIKE" CALLED BY THE MAOIST TERRORIST GROUP THE SHINING PATH. TRADE, MINING, AND BANKING ACTIVITIES IN THESE IMPORTANT ANDEAN DEPARTMENTS WERE COMPLETELY PARALYZED DURING THE STRIKE.</p><p>ONE ARMY OFFICER AND A CIVILIAN DIED, 5 POLICEMEN AND 2 CIVILIZANS WERE INJURED, AND SOME $20 MILLION WAS LOST IN PROPERTY DAMAGE DURING THE STRIKE.</p><p>THE MAIN PERUVIAN MINES OF LEAD, SILVER, ZINC, GOLD, AND COPPER ARE LOCATED IN THESE THREE DEPARTMENTS. APPROXIMATELY 40,000 MINEWORKERS OBSERVED THE STRIKE OUT OF FEAR OF SHINING PATH RETALIATION.</p></body></html>