<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0255"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0255"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0255</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0255 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 19 JUN 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] ACCORDING TO A LAST - MINUTE OFFICIAL REPORT, SIX GUERRILLAS OF THE SO-CALLED CAMILIST UNION OF THE SO-CALLED ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION ELN DIED TODAY DURING FIGHTING WITH (LA POPA) BATTALION TROOPS IN THE SLOPES OF THE PERIJA MOUNTAIN RANGE. A MILITARY COMMAND SPOKESMAN SAID THAT THE FIGHTING TOOK PLACE A SCANT 10 KM FROM THE VILLAGE OF SAN JACINTO IN SAN DIEGO MUNICIPALITY, WHERE FOUR SOLDIERS DIED LAST WEEK IN AN AMBUSH.</p><p>POLICE AND MILITARY FORCES HAVE STEPPED UP SURVEILLANCE AROUND THE CANO LIMON - COVENAS PIPELINE AFTER TWO NEW ATTACKS, ALSO BY THE ELN, OCCURRED IN HUILA AND NORTH SANTANDER DEPARTMENTS.</p><p>THE TERRORIST ATTACK IN HUILA DEPARTMENT TOOK PLACE IN LA MOTOSA, NEAR AIPE MUNICIPALITY, WHERE THE PIPELINE THAT PUMPS CRUDE OIL BETWEEN NEIVA AND LA DORADA WAS DYNAMITED. HUMBERTO BRINES TRAVELED EARLY TODAY TO THE SCENE OF THE EVENTS AND REPORTED THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [BRINES] A NEW ATTACK WAS PERPETRATED LAST NIGHT AGAINST THE PIPELINE THAT PUMPS CRUDE OIL FROM NEIVA TO DORADA. SUSPECTED ELN GUERRILLAS PLACED A DYNAMITE CHARGE AT THE PLACE CALLED LA MOTOSA, NEAR AIPE MUNICIPALITY, WHICH COMPLETELY DESTROYED THE GUARD POST AND A STRETCH OF THE PIPELINE. A FIRE IMMEDIATELY BROKE OUT AND THE INSTALLATION WAS COMPLETELY GUTTED.</p><p>CRUDE OIL PUMPING WAS SUSPENDED AND EFFORTS TO CONTAIN THE FIRE AND TO REPAIR THE PIPELINE BEGAN AT 2300. THE EXTENT OF THE LOSSES HAS NOT YET BEEN ASSESSED. THIS PIPELINE PUMPS 58,000 BARRELS OF OIL PER DAY. THE MAIN PUMPING STATION IS LOCATED IN AIPE MUNICIPALITY. WORKERS FROM (JOCOL) AND ECOPETROL [COLOMBIAN PETROLEUM ENTERPRISE] WORKED INTENSELY ALL THROUGH THE PREDAWN HOURS TO REPAIR THE PIPELINE, ENABLING IT TO RESUME PUMPING OPERATIONS AT 1000.</p><p>EVEN THOUGH THE ELN HAS REPEATEDLY THREATENED THE OIL PIPELINES, WORK HAS CONTINUED ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW MULTIPLE PIPELINE IN HUILA, WHICH WILL PUMP 138,000 BARRELS OF OIL PER DAY BETWEEN NEIVA AND COVENAS. THE SAME PIPELINE WAS BLOWN UP ONLY 1 MONTH AGO, A SCARCE 25 KM FROM THAT PLACE. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>