<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1225"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1225"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAVANA (CUBA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1225</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1225 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>HAVANA (CUBA), 5 APR 90 (INTERNATIONAL SERVICE) -- [TEXT] VARIOUS INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL FACTORS HAVE MADE POSSIBLE THE MEETING IN OSLO, NORWAY'S CAPITAL. AT THE END OF MARCH, A GUATEMALAN NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY ARMY [URNG] DELEGATION, REPRESENTING ITS GENERAL COMMAND, MET WITH A NATIONAL RECONCILIATION COMMISSION [CNR] DELEGATION, ACCREDITED TO SUPPORT THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT AND ARMY TO FIND A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE VERY GRAVE CRISIS THAT IS AFFECTING THE COUNTRY IN GENERAL. IT IS WORTH NOTING THAT THE POLITICAL WILL AND BROAD INITIATIVE REPEATEDLY DISPLAYED BY THE URNG GENERAL COMMAND, WHICH SEEKS A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE INTERNAL ARMED CONFLICT WITH THEIR PARTICIPATION, HAS RECEIVED WIDESPREAD WELCOME AMONG THE POPULATION AND HAS CAUSED GREAT DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL REPERCUSSIONS RESULTING IN THE APPROVAL AND SUPPORT OF A BROAD AND REPRESENTATIVE SEGMENT OF GUATEMALAN POLITICAL AND SOCIAL SECTORS.</p><p>AS MAY BE RECALLED, IT HAS BEEN THE MILITARY AND GOVERNMENT WHO HAVE OBSTINATELY REFUSED TO TALK TO THE GUATEMALAN ARMED INSURGENTS. THIS HIGHLIGHTS THE WEAKNESSES, ISOLATION, AND CONTRADICTIONS WITHIN THE ARMY AND THE RULING CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY. THE ARMY'S SECTOR MOST RELUCTANT TO TALK WITH THE GUERRILLAS IS BENT ON RESOLVING GUATEMALA'S ARMED CONFLICT BY WAY OF THE MILITARY, NOTWITHSTANDING THAT IT CONTRADICTORILY REFUSES TO ACKNOWLEDGE THEIR EXISTENCE.</p><p>IT IS THIS SECTOR THAT THE TROOPS AND SOME OFFICERS -- NOT PRECISELY THE SELF-NAMED MOUNTAIN OFFICERS -- BLAME FOR THE HARD SETBACKS AND SEVERE BLOWS INFLICTED BY THE GUERRILLA FORCES, THE FAILURE OF THE COUNTERINSURGENCY STRATEGY, AND THE ARMY BEING BOGGED DOWN. FOR THE MILITARY LEADERSHIP UNDER THESE CONDITIONS, THE SITUATION IS SOMETHING LIKE AN ALLEY, THE WAY OUT OF WHICH COULD BE SEEN IF DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL HECTOR GRAMAJO OPTED TO FOLLOW AND RESPECT THE LETTER AND SPIRIT OF THE OSLO AGREEMENTS.</p><p>IN THE CASE OF GUATEMALA, HOWEVER, IT IS NOT JUST SIMPLY ENDING AN UNDECLARED WAR THAT HAS LASTED NEARLY 30 YEARS. IN THE OPINION OF THE GUATEMALAN REVOLUTIONARIES, THE HELP OF ALL WHO FAVOR DEMOCRACY AND PEACE IS NEEDED TO LAY DOWN THE BASIS FOR A GREAT NATIONAL ACCORD THAT WILL ENSURE FOR GUATEMALA A SERIOUS PROCESS OF DIALOGUE AND TALKS SO AS TO RESOLVE THE HISTORIC AND ROOT STRUCTURAL CAUSES THAT HAVE GENERATED THE DOMESTIC ARMED CONFLICT, WHICH STILL REMAINS INTACT. THESE JUSTIFY AND GIVE VALIDITY TO THE DEMOCRATIC PROJECT, AND THE PATRIOTIC AND POPULAR STRUGGLE BY THE ARMED GUATEMALAN REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT.</p><p>COMPLIANCE AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BASIC AGREEMENT TO SEEK PEACE THROUGH POLITICAL MEANS, SIGNED IN THE NORWEGIAN CAPITAL ON 30 APRIL, DEPENDS THEN ON THE WILL AND POLITICAL ATTITUDE OF THE SIDES IN THE CONFLICT. THE GUATEMALAN REVOLUTIONARIES ARE PRECISELY THE ONES WHO HAVE SHOWN THE MOST WILLINGNESS AND WILL, AND WHO HAVE MADE THE MOST EFFORTS IN FAVOR OF PEACE IN GUATEMALA. THEIR WIDESPREAD POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC INITIATIVES AND THEIR MEANINGFUL ADVANCES IN THE BATTLEFIELD PERMIT THE INSURGENTS TO SIT DOWN AT THE NEGOTIATING TABLE WITH ENOUGH RESOURCES AND CONDITIONS TO ENSURE THAT THE OSLO AGREEMENTS ARE RESPECTED AND COMPLIED WITH; THAT GUATEMALA ENTERS INTO A TRUE PROCESS OF DEMOCRACY IN ITS INSTITUTIONS AND STRUCTURES, WITH BROAD NATIONAL SUPPORT AND INTERNATIONAL SOLIDARITY; AND THAT PEACE IS REESTABLISHED -- AN HONORABLE PEACE WITH DIGNITY THAT GUARANTEES SOCIAL JUSTICE AND INDEPENDENCE, PROGRESS, AND WELLBEING.</p></body></html>