<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0725"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0725"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0725</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0725 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 13 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [INTERVIEW WITH COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHAIRMAN OF THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF, BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [REPORTER] COLONEL PONCE, WHAT IS THE CURRENT MILITARY SITUATION IN SAN SALVADOR AND IN THE OTHER DEPARTMENTS?</p><p>[PONCE] GOOD EVENING, SALVADORAN PEOPLE. THE ARMED FORCES WANT TO PUBLICLY RECOGNIZE AND THANK THE PEOPLE FOR THEIR COOPERATION DURING THIS TIME WHEN THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] TERRORIST HORDES ARE CARRYING OUT AN ARMED AGGRESSION AGAINST ALL OF OUR PEOPLE.</p><p>THE SITUATION IN SAN SALVADOR CAN BE SUMMARIZED AS FOLLOWS: FIGHTING IS ONGOING IN THE NORTHERN PART OF SAN SALVADOR -- IN MEJICANOS, CUSCATANCINGO, AND THE ZACAMIL AREAS. THERE ARE ALSO SOME CLASHES IN THE NORTHWESTERN AREA OF SOYAPANGO, IN THE RESIDENTIAL AREAS OF BOSQUES DEL RIO, MONTE FRESCO, EL PETETE, AND SAN JOSE.</p><p>THERE IS SOME SPORADIC FIGHTING IN CIUDAD CREDISA, AS WELL AS IN SANTA MARTA. THAT IS WHAT WE CAN TELL YOU AT THIS MOMENT ABOUT THE FIGHTING IN THE AREA OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>IN THE OTHER DEPARTMENTS, ON SATURDAY, 11 NOVEMBER, THERE WAS FIGHTING IN SAN MIGUEL, SANTA ANA, ZACATECOLUCA, USULUTAN, AND SOME SPORADIC FIGHTING IN CHALATENANGO. OF ALL THESE PLACES, THE TERRORISTS INCREASED THEIR AGGRESSION TODAY ONLY IN ZACATECOLUCA. THE TERRORISTS, UNFORTUNATELY, TOOK OVER THE HOSPITAL IN ZACATECOLUCA, KILLING ONE SOLDIER WHO WAS RECEIVING MEDICAL TREATMENT. THE ARMED FORCES HAVE REGAINED CONTROL OF THE FIRST AND SECOND FLOORS OF THE HOSPITAL. APPROXIMATELY 10 TO 15 TERRORISTS ARE ON THE THIRD AND FOURTH FLOORS, AND THE TROUBLE IS THAT THERE ARE SICK PEOPLE ON THOSE FLOORS.</p><p>SO, WE BELIEVE THAT THE ARMED AGGRESSION, THE INDISCRIMINATE TERRORISM THAT THE FMLN HAS LAUNCHED AT THIS TIME IN AN IRRATIONAL MANNER AGAINST THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, HAS BEEN CONTROLLED. THE ARMED FORCES ARE FIGHTING IN A PROFESSIONAL MANNER AGAINST THESE TERRORISTS.</p><p>[REPORTER] TO SUM UP, WE COULD THEN SAY THAT THERE ARE ONLY A FEW GUERRILLA RESISTANCE POCKETS IN THE AREAS THAT YOU HAVE MENTIONED. THIS CONTRADICTS THE REPORTS FROM THE CLANDESTINE RADIO STATIONS TO THE EFFECT THAT THEY CONTROL CERTAIN AREAS.</p><p>[PONCE] I MUST ALSO ADD THAT THERE IS ALSO SOME FIGHTING IN CIUDAD DELGADO. I CAN CATEGORICALLY STATE THAT THE FMLN DOES NOT CONTROL ANY POINT IN OUR NATIONAL TERRITORY. THEY ARE SHOUTING ABROAD THAT THEY CONTROL CERTAIN POINTS IN SAN SALVADOR. THE PEOPLE THEMSELVES, THE MEDIA, AND THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS ARE WITNESSES TO THE FACT THE FMLN DOES NOT CONTROL ANY PLACES IN SAN SALVADOR OR IN THE OTHER DEPARTMENTS. THERE ARE STILL SOME FMLN REDOUBTS, WHICH WE ARE CURRENTLY CONTROLLING IN ORDER TO EXPEL FROM THE URBAN AREAS THE TERRORISTS WHO ARE ATTACKING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION.</p><p>NATURALLY, WE HAVE SOME COMBAT LIMITATIONS IN THE URBAN AREAS, BECAUSE THE TERRORISTS ARE SHIELDING THEMSELVES BEHIND THE CIVILIAN POPULATION AND ARE HOLDING MANY FAMILIES HOSTAGES IN THEIR OWN HOMES. THE TERRORISTS HAVE ALSO PLACED SNIPERS ON SOME TALL BUILDINGS. THAT IS WHY THE ARMED FORCES ARE ASKING FOR THE PEOPLE'S UNDERSTANDING. IF WE WERE TO USE OUR MILITARY POWER, AS WE COULD DO IN A COMBAT ZONE, WE WOULD KILL MANY INNOCENT PEOPLE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>