<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0491"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0491"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0491</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0491 (UMASS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 17 SEP 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] THE COLOMBIAN POLICE REPORTED THAT A HOMEMADE ROCKET WAS LAUNCHED AT THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE U.S. EMBASSY IN BOGOTA THIS EVENING. NO INJURIES OR DAMAGE WERE REPORTED.</p><p>THE ROCKET PARTIALLY PERFORATED ONE OF THE WALLS OF THE EMBASSY, BUT DID NOT EXPLODE.</p><p>THE ALREADY TIGHT SECURITY SURROUNDING THE EMBASSY SINCE THE WAR AGAINST DRUG TRAFFIC WAS DECLARED WAS STEPPED UP IMMEDIATELY AND TRAFFIC AND PEDESTRIANS WERE KEPT OUT OF THE AREA.</p><p>THIS ATTACKED FOLLOWED THE TWO DYNAMITE EXPLOSIONS THAT OCCURRED EARLY SUNDAY EVENING IN THE NORTHERN AREA OF BOGOTA WHERE ONE PERSON WAS SLIGHTLY INJURED AND APPROXIMATELY 30 LOCALS WERE DAMAGED.</p><p>DURING THE BELISARIO BETACUR ADMINISTRATION (1982 - 1986), WHEN SEVERAL COLOMBIAN DRUG TRAFFICKERS WERE EXTRADITED TO THE UNITED STATES, THE U.S. EMBASSY WAS ATTACKED IN A SIMILAR MANNER. NO INJURIES WERE REPORTED DURING THAT ATTACK. LATER, HOWEVER, A BOMB EXPLODED IN THE EMBASSY'S PARKING LOT KILLING A COLOMBIAN WOMAN WHO WAS STANDING IN LINE TO GET A VISA.</p><p>LIKE IN OTHER ATTACKS OF THIS KIND REPORTED OVER THE PAST FEW WEEKS IN BOGOTA AND IN OTHER CITIES, NO ORGANIZATION HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS ATTACK; HOWEVER, THE PRESS AND THE AUTHORITIES ARE BLAMING PERSONS IN THE SERVICE OF THE DRUG LORDS.</p></body></html>