<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0921"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0921"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0921</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0921 (GTE)</p><p>BOGOTA, 1 DEC 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] LAST YEAR, WITHOUT EXTRADITION IN EFFECT, OVER 600 ANONYMOUS COLOMBIAN PEASANTS WERE MURDERED IN MORE THAN 40 MASSACRES BY HIRED ASSASSINS PAID BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS. THERE IS EVEN MORE: LET US NOT FORGET ANTIOQUIA GOVERNOR ANTONIO ROLDAN BETANCUR, MAGISTRATE CARLOS VALENCIA, COLONEL FRANKLYN QUINTERO, AND SENATOR LUIS CARLOS GALAN WHO WERE MURDERED WHEN EXTRADITION WAS NOT IN EFFECT. LET US NOT SAY THAT EXTRADITION HAS BROUGHT US VIOLENCE. A POSTER FOUND AT THE FARM RAIDED LAST WEEK, FROM WHERE PABLO ESCOBAR ESCAPED READ: EXTRADITION IS VIOLENCE. LET US NOT BE FOOLED; VIOLENCE HAS BEEN USED BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS BY MURDERING, WHILE FLEEING FROM THE REACTION OF JUSTICE, AND INTIMIDATING COLOMBIAN SOCIETY. IT HAS ALSO BEEN SAID THAT EXTRADITION IS UNDIGNIFIED BECAUSE IT SENDS COLOMBIANS ABROAD TO BE TRIED, AND THAT IT IS MORE DIGNIFIED FOR THEM TO BE TRIED AND CONDEMNED IN THE COUNTRY BY OUR OWN JUDGES. THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS, HOWEVER, HAVE SENT MORE THAN 200 COLOMBIAN JUDGES AND JUDICIAL BRANCH OFFICIALS TO THEIR GRAVE. FOR EXAMPLE, THE INVESTIGATION INTO THE MURDER OF DR GUILLERMO CANO HAS MEANT THE DEATH OF WITNESSES, JUDICIAL OFFICIALS, AND LAWYERS AND INTIMIDATION AND THREATS TO ALL THOSE WHO WANT TO COOPERATE WITH JUSTICE TO RESOLVE A CRIME. HOW THEN CAN WE BELIEVE THESE DRUG TRAFFICKERS? CAN WE BELIEVE THAT EXTRADITION HAS CAUSED THIS VIOLENCE? CAN WE HAVE A FREE AND DIGNIFIED COUNTRY WITH THESE BANDS OF MULTIMILLIONAIRE MURDERERS?</p><p>I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO EXPLAIN TO YOU WHY THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDERS IT HARMFUL AND DANGEROUS TO SUBMIT EXTRADITION TO A REFERENDUM. WE KNOW THAT EXTRADITION IS ONLY FOR DRUG TRAFFICKERS. WE KNOW WHAT THEY HAVE DONE AND WHAT THEY ARE CAPABLE OF DOING. WE HAVE SUFFERED FROM THEIR TERRORIST ACTIONS. MANY BRAVE COLOMBIANS HAVE BEEN MURDERED FOR THE SIMPLE REASON OF NOT AGREEING WITH DRUG TRAFFICKING. DO YOU BELIEVE THAT ON THIS TOPIC OF EXTRADITION THERE COULD BE A CLEAN ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN, FREE FROM INTIMIDATION? DO YOU BELIEVE THAT THOSE WHO ARE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING CAN, WITHOUT FEAR, GIVE THEIR OPINION? IT WOULD BE A CAMPAIGN SLANTED BY TERRORISM, INTIMIDATION, AND DRUG TRAFFICKERS' MONEY.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT CANNOT SUBJECT CITIZENS TO AN ELECTORAL PROCESS THAT WOULD NOT BE TO CONVINCE COLOMBIANS, BUT TO INTIMIDATE THEM. A REFERENDUM IS FOR PEOPLE TO EXPRESS THEIR FREE AND SOVEREIGN DECISION ON A TOPIC OF GENERAL INTEREST. TO INCLUDE EXTRADITION IN THE REFERENDUM WOULD ONLY SERVE SO THAT A HANDFUL -- LESS THAN 100 -- DRUG TRAFFICKERS CAN, BY USING THEIR MONEY AND TERROR, INTIMIDATE PUBLIC OPINION, THE MEDIA, AND ALL COLOMBIANS, SO AS TO AVOID BEING TRIED AND CONDEMNED FOR CRIMES THAT THEY HAD COMMITTED ABROAD.</p><p>CONDITIONS OF TERRORISM DO NOT ALLOW THIS TOPIC TO BE DECIDED FREELY. I CALL FOR GOOD SENSE, FOR SENSIBLENESS, SO THAT THE DARK INTERESTS OF A FEW PRIVATE PEOPLE ARE NOT CONFUSED WITH THE GENERAL INTEREST OF ALL COLOMBIANS. I CALL FOR COLOMBIANS NOT TO ALLOW THE CONSTITUTIONAL REFORMS THAT ARE IN THE FINAL DISCUSSION, OR THE FIRST REFERENDUM IN OVER 30 YEARS, TO BE USED IN AN OPPORTUNISTIC WAY TO SERVE SELFISH INTERESTS. THE GOVERNMENT IS CONVINCED THAT THE CONSTITUTIONAL REFORMS AND THE EXTRAORDINARY REFERENDUM WILL BE AN IMPORTANT ADVANCEMENT FOR THE INSTITUTIONS. THEY WILL ALLOW GREATER PARTICIPATION BY THE PEOPLE IN STATE DECISIONS, IN CONGRESS, AND ARE WITHOUT DOUBT A STEP TOWARD PEACE. I KNOW THERE ARE SOME WHO SAY THAT DRUG TRAFFICKERS WANT PEACE AND TRANQUILITY. I WANT TO SAY THAT ELIMINATING EXTRADITION WILL NOT BRING TRANQUILITY, BUT IMPUNITY AND MORE VIOLENCE. THIS IS WHY IT IS ADVISABLE THAT PARLIAMENTARIANS NOT ALLOW INSTITUTIONAL CHANGES TO BE ENDANGERED OR THE PEACE ACCORDS BE PUT TO SERIOUS RISK DUE TO THE INCLUSION IN THE REFERENDUM OF A TOPIC THAT NOT ONLY WOULD NOT BE GOOD FOR THE COUNTRY, BUT WOULD BE DANGEROUS TO ALL COLOMBIANS.</p><p>AS IS PUBLICLY KNOWN, I WILL TRAVEL ON 3 DECEMBER AT THE OFFICIAL INVITATION OF THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT. THIS IS PART OF COLOMBIA'S OPENING TO THE PACIFIC. THERE, I SHALL MEET WITH EMPEROR AKIHITO; WITH PRIME MINISTER TOSHIKI KAIFU; WITH THE LEGISLATIVE CHAMBERS; WITH INDUSTRIAL, POLITICAL, AND ACADEMIC LEADERS; AND WITH JAPANESE GOVERNMENT LENDING AND TRADE ENTITIES. THERE, I SHALL PRESENT A TRUE PICTURE OF COLOMBIA -- A COUNTRY WITH DIFFICULTIES, BUT WITH THE NATIONAL RESOLVE TO OVERCOME THEM. WE ARE A COUNTRY WITH A PROMISING FUTURE, WITH HARD-WORKING PEOPLE, AND WITH VAST NATURAL RESOURCES. A FEW CRIMINALS WILL NOT BE ABLE TO SNATCH THAT FUTURE FROM US. GOOD NIGHT, AND SEE YOU SOON.</p></body></html>