<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0531"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0531"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0531</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0531 (UMASS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE -- [INTERVIEW WITH FMLN'S VILLALOBOS BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTED] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [VILLALOBOS] WE ARE CONTRIBUTING TO THE EFFORT TO STOP FASCISM AND BRING ABOUT A GENUINE DEMOCRACY. THE BASIS FOR A NEGOTIATION IN EL SALVADOR SHOULD BE THAT DEMOCRACY PRECEDES PEACE. OUR COMMUNIQUE STATES THAT WE ARE SEARCHING FOR DEMOCRACY AND PEACE. WE MENTION THEM IN THAT ORDER BECAUSE IF WE WERE TO SEEK PEACE FIRST, AS THE GOVERNMENT WANTS, WE WOULD HAVE THE PEACE OF DEATH.</p><p>[REPORTER] YOU REFERRED TO COMBATANTS AND THE PEOPLE'S MOVEMENT. HOWEVER, IN THE PAST FEW DAYS OTHER PEOPLE HAVE BEEN IN THE FOREFRONT OF THE STRUGGLE AGAINST THE FASCIST REGIME; THAT IS, THE FMLN MAIMED. WHAT IS YOUR OPINION ABOUT THEIR PLIGHT AND ATTITUDE?</p><p>[VILLALOBOS] THE STRUGGLE OF THE PEOPLE'S MOVEMENT INVOLVING INDIVIDUALS WHO WAGE IMPORTANT BATTLES WITHOUT WEAPONS IS QUITE ADMIRABLE. I BELIEVE THAT THE STRUGGLE OF THE WAR MAIMED IS TWICE AS ADMIRABLE. THEY ARE NOT ONLY WAGING A BATTLE WITHOUT WEAPONS, BUT WITH THEIR MUTILATED BODIES.</p><p>THE PEOPLE'S MOVEMENT IS EXPERIENCING VERY TRYING MOMENTS. IT IS FACING REPRESSION. THIS SHOWS THE REGIME AS IT REALLY IS. THE MAIMED HAVE ALSO DEALT A VERY IMPORTANT BLOW: THEY HAVE EXPOSED THE BRUTALITY AND STUPIDITY OF ARMY LEADERS WHO SET UP ANTIRIOT CORDONS, SURROUNDED THE CATHEDRAL, AND THREATENED PEOPLE WHO ARE UNABLE TO WALK OR ARE MISSING A LIMB [WORDS INDISTINCT]. IT IS REALLY A HEROIC STRUGGLE MUCH LIKE THE ONES THAT MANY MAIMED COMRADES HAVE WAGED FROM THEIR JAILS. THEY HAVE OPENED THE WAY FOR OTHER COMRADES TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY.</p><p>I THINK THIS IS TO BE ADDED TO THE FACT THAT ALL OF THE PEOPLE'S FORCES WHO HAVE TAKEN UP THE BANNER OF PEACE AND DEMOCRACY, EVEN THE WAR-DISABLED, HAVE CONTRIBUTED TO OUR EFFORT WITH THEIR SACRIFICE.</p></body></html>