<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0342"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0342"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0342</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0342 (BBN)</p><p>LIMA, 13 AUG 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] A SPOKESMAN FOR THE MINERS TODAY REPORTED IN LIMA THAT PERUVIAN SOLDIERS HAVE ARRESTED AT LEAST 22 MINERS, INCLUDING 4 REGIONAL LEADERS, ON THE EVE OF THE MINERS NATIONAL STRIKE, WHICH IS SCHEDULED TO BEGIN ON 14 AUGUST. THERE ARE APPROXIMATELY 100,000 MINERS IN PERU.</p><p>THE SPOKESMAN TOLD EFE THAT THE SOLDIERS ARRESTED MINERS AT THE LA OROYA, MOROCOCHA, CASA PALCA, AND AUSTRIA-DUVALZ MINING CAMPS IN THE CENTRAL PART OF THE MOUNTAIN RANGE. IN LIMA, THE POLICE ARE LOOKING FOR THE MAIN LEADERS OF THE MINERS.</p><p>THE FEDERATION OF MINERS AND METALWORKERS HAS CALLED A NATIONAL STRIKE FOR 14 AUGUST TO PRESSURE THE COURTS INTO RULING IN FAVOR OF A "SINGLE NATIONAL LIST OF DEMANDS," WHICH WILL ALLOW THE FEDERATION TO REPRESENT ALL PERUVIAN MINERS AT THE DISCUSSIONS OF LABOR AND SALARY ISSUES.</p><p>ON FRIDAY, 11 AUGUST, THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT ORDERED ARMY SOLDIERS AND NAVY MARINES TO GUARD MINING CAMPS IN ORDER TO PREVENT POSSIBLE ATTACKS AND SABOTAGE DURING THE STRIKE, THE FIRST THIS YEAR.</p><p>TERRORISTS HAVE ATTACKED SEVERAL MINES LATELY AND HAVE KILLED APPROXIMATELY 12 MINERS, INCLUDING SAUL CANTORAL, SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE FEDERATION.</p><p>THE MINERS WENT ON STRIKE FOR ALMOST 100 DAYS LAST YEAR. THAT STRIKE CAUSED LOSSES ESTIMATED AT $500 MILLION, ONE-THIRD OF PERU'S OVERALL MINING EXPORTS.</p><p>THE STRIKE WILL AFFECT CENTRAL PERUVIAN MINING ENTERPRISE, THE LARGEST STATE-OWNED CORPORATION; THE U.S. COMPANY SOUTHERN PERU COPPER CORPORATION, WHICH EXPLOITS 75 PERCENT OF THE PERUVIAN COPPER; AND THE ILO REFINERY, THE SECOND LARGEST IN PERU.</p></body></html>