<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0178"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0178"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0178</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0178 (ADS)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 19 APR 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] HONDURAN GUERRILLAS CLAIMED CREDIT TODAY FOR THE ATTACK ON A U.S. ARMY CONVOY ON 11 APRIL IN NORTHERN HONDURAS IN WHICH ONE PERSON WAS KILLED, THREE OR FOUR PEOPLE WOUNDED, AND ONE VEHICLE DESTROYED.</p><p>THE ATTACK ON AN 11-VEHICLE CONVOY CARRYING U.S. AND HONDURAN SOLDIERS TOOK PLACE 17 KM NORTHEAST OF OLANCHITO, IN YORO DEPARTMENT, ON THE NORTHERN COAST OF HONDURAS.</p><p>PEOPLE HAVE BEEN TOLD THAT U.S. AND HONDURAN TROOPS ARE BUILDING A HIGHWAY FOR MILITARY EMERGENCIES AND CIVIL DEVELOPMENT IN THIS AREA.</p><p>IN A COMMUNIQUE DISTRIBUTED IN OLANCHITO, THE MORAZANIST PATRIOTIC FRONT (FPM) CLAIMED CREDIT FOR THE ATTACK, AND SAID THE ATTACK WAS CARRIED OUT BY THE RAMON AMAYA AMADOR COMMANDO GROUP [COMANDO RAMON AMAYA AMADOR].</p><p>THE GUERRILLA COMMUNIQUE STATED "THE ATTACK WAS CARRIED OUT WITH RIFLE FIRE AND HAND GRENADES, WHICH NEUTRALIZED THE REARGUARD OF THE YANKEE CONVOY AND RESULTED IN ONE DEAD, THREE OR FOUR WOUNDED, AND ONE DESTROYED VEHICLE."</p><p>THE COMMUNIQUE ADDED THAT "THE YANKEES REFUSE TO REPORT THEIR CASUALTIES SO AS NOT TO DEMORALIZE THEIR TROOPS. OUR RIFLES WILL BE AIMED AT THE BLONDS FROM THE NORTH WHO ARE TODAY TRAMPLING ON OUR SACRED FATHERLAND."</p><p>THE HONDURAN ARMED FORCES AND THE U.S. EMBASSY IN TEGUCIGALPA HAVE CONFIRMED THE ATTACK, BUT THEY DID NOT MENTION ANY CASUALTIES, ALTHOUGH THEY ADMIT THAT THE LAST VEHICLE IN THE CONVOY WAS "DAMAGED" BY AN EXPLOSIVE DEVICE THAT WAS HURLED AT IT.</p><p>ON 1 FEBRUARY, ANOTHER U.S. MILITARY CONVOY WAS ATTACKED IN THE SAME AREA BY UNIDENTIFIED PERSONS, WITHOUT CAUSING ANY CASUALTIES BUT DAMAGING ONE TRUCK.</p><p>THAT ATTACK WAS ALSO CLAIMED BY THE FPM, WHICH SAID IT HAD WOUNDED SOME AMERICANS.</p><p>THE FPM FIRST APPEARED IN SAN PEDRO SULA IN 1979 AND HAS TAKEN CREDIT FOR SEVERAL DYNAMITE ATTACKS AND RURAL GUERRILLA ACTIONS.</p><p>RAMON AMAYA AMADOR, THE NAME USED BY THE HONDURAN GUERRILLA GROUP, WAS A LEFTIST NOVELIST WHO WROTE ABOUT THE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INEQUALITIES AMONG HONDURANS. HE ALSO CONDEMNED FOREIGN INTERVENTION, PARTICULARLY U.S. INTERVENTION, IN HONDURAN ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL AFFAIRS.</p></body></html>