<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0039"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0039"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0039</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0039 (NOSC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 15 JAN 90 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI TODAY POSTPONED HIS TRIP TO THE UNITED STATES, WHICH WAS SCHEDULED FOR 16-23 JANUARY, UNTIL LATER THIS MONTH, ACCORDING TO AN ANNOUNCEMENT TODAY BY INFORMATION SECRETARY MAURICIO SANDOVAL.</p><p>THE PRESIDENTIAL SPOKESMAN EXPLAINED THAT THE POSTPONEMENT OF CRISTIANI'S TRIP IS DUE TO THE PRESIDENT'S INTEREST IN MEETING WITH UN SECRETARY GENERAL JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR TO REQUEST THAT PEREZ DE CUELLAR ACT AS MEDIATOR TO ACHIEVE THE RESUMPTION OF DIALOGUE WITH THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS.</p><p>"WE HAVE RECEIVED INFORMATION FROM NEW YORK TO THE EFFECT THAT PEREZ DE CUELLAR WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE ON THE DATES INITIALLY SET FOR THE TRIP, THUS, CRISTIANI'S VISIT HAS BEEN POSTPONED, SANDOVAL SAID.</p><p>ACCORDING TO SANDOVAL, CRISTIANI WILL MEET WITH PEREZ DE CUELLAR ON 31 JANUARY, AFTER WHICH HE WILL GO TO WASHINGTON IN EARLY FEBRUARY TO MEET WITH U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH.</p><p>SANDOVAL DENIED THAT THE POSTPONEMENT OF CRISTIANI'S TRIP IS RELATED TO POSSIBLE REACTION TO THE ARREST OF EIGHT MEMBERS OF THE ARMY, INCLUDING FOUR OFFICERS, ON CHARGES OF BEING IMPLICATED IN THE MURDER OF SIX JESUIT PRIESTS AND TWO EMPLOYEES.</p><p>"THERE IS NO RELATION, BECAUSE THE CASE OF THE JESUITS IS BEING RESOLVED," THE SPOKESMAN SAID.</p><p>SANDOVAL ALSO DENIED THAT POSTPONEMENT OF THE TRIP IS LINKED TO THE ASSASSINATION OF HECTOR OQUELI, A SALVADORAN LEADER OF THE SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL, 3 DAYS AGO IN GUATEMALA.</p><p>AFTER LEARNING OF OQUELI'S ASSASSINATION, THE GUERRILLAS ANNOUNCED THAT THEY WILL "REVISE" THEIR OFFER TO RESUME THE DIALOGUE WITH THE GOVERNMENT. HOWEVER, THE PRESIDENTIAL SPOKESMAN INDICATED THAT THE GUERRILLAS HAVE SENT NO OFFICIAL NOTE EXPLAINING THE REVISION.</p></body></html>