<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0716"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0716"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0716</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0716 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 13 NOV 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] THE VEHICLE OF MEXICAN TELEVISION NEWSMAN EPIGMENIO IBARRA WAS TOTALLY DESTROYED BY A POWERFUL BOMB TODAY, BUT IBARRA WAS NOT HURT.</p><p>IT IS NOT YET KNOWN WHO PLACED THE BOMB IN THE VEHICLE WHILE IBARRA WAS AWAY.</p><p>THE BOMB IN IBARRA'S VEHICLE EXPLODED TODAY IN AN AREA OF SAN SALVADOR WHERE HEAVY FIGHTING BETWEEN THE ARMY AND THE GUERRILLAS IS CURRENTLY UNDER WAY. ON SATURDAY THE GUERRILLAS LAUNCHED THE MOST POWERFUL OFFENSIVE IN THE PAST 8 YEARS.</p><p>THE BLOODY FIGHTING BETWEEN THE ARMY AND THE GUERRILLAS CONTINUES TODAY FOR THE THIRD CONSECUTIVE DAY, AND THERE HAVE BEEN APPROXIMATELY 400 CASUALTIES INCLUDING SOLDIERS, REBELS, AND CIVILIANS.</p><p>TODAY, MONDAY, SAN SALVADOR IS PRACTICALLY AT A STANDSTILL DUE TO THE FIGHTING AND THE "TRANSPORTATION STRIKE" CALLED BY THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, WHICH ON SATURDAY LAUNCHED ITS LARGEST MILITARY OFFENSIVE SINCE 1981.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE ARMED FORCES, 127 PERSONS HAVE BEEN KILLED AND 240 WOUNDED SINCE THE FIGHTING BEGAN. FOR THEIR PART, THE GUERRILLAS CLAIM THAT THEY HAVE INFLICTED MORE THAN 400 CASUALTIES ON THE ARMY, BUT HAVE PROVIDED NO FIGURES ON LOSSES OR ON THE DEAD AND INJURED AMONG ITS RANKS.</p></body></html>