<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0164"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0164"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0164</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0164 (BELLCORE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 6 APR 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] THE FUTURE ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] GOVERNMENT IS ILLEGAL BECAUSE THE RESULTS OF THE 19 MARCH ELECTION, MORE SO THAN IN ANY OTHER PAST ELECTION, DO NOT REPRESENT THE WISHES OF THE MAJORITY OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. THOSE ELECTIONS WERE MARKED BY ABSTENTION AS A RESULT OF THE REJECTION OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] PEACE PROPOSAL. THOSE ELECTIONS WERE HELD WHILE THERE WAS A WAR AND WHILE THE COUNTRY WAS DIVIDED. THIS CLEARLY SHOWED THE DUALITY OF POWER THAT EXISTS. THIS CLEARLY SHOWED THAT THE MAJORITY OF THE PEOPLE ARE DEMANDING A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION TO THE WAR. WITHOUT NEGOTIATION, NO ONE CAN RULE IN EL SALVADOR. THEREFORE, A MILITARY SOLUTION OR THE SURRENDER OF THE FMLN IS NOT POSSIBLE. THE FUTURE GOVERNMENT HAS TWO OPTIONS: TO BE A GOVERNMENT THAT WILL INCREASE THE WAR OR TO BE A GOVERNMENT THAT WILL MOVE TOWARD PEACE.</p><p>THE FMLN JOINS ALL THE NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL FORCES THAT EXPRESSED THEIR CONCERN FOR ARENA'S COMING TO POWER. WE DO NOT BELIEVE IN ITS [WORD INDISTINCT] CAMPAIGN IN WHICH THEY ARE TRYING TO PRESENT THEMSELVES AS MODERATES. IN LESS THAN 20 DAYS, AND WITHOUT FORMALLY ASSUMING POWER, THERE HAS BEEN AN INCREASE IN REPRESSION AND SOCIAL TENSION, AS HAS BEEN EXPRESSED IN DOZENS OF MISSING PERSONS, MURDERS, AND ARRESTS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY. LABOR UNION OFFICES AND THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY CAMPUS HAVE BEEN CORDONED OFF; CIVILIANS HAVE BEEN VICTIMS OF TERRORIST ATTACKS; GRENADES AND BOMBS HAVE BEEN EXPLODED IN PUBLIC PLACES; AND THE FMLN IS BLAMED FOR THOSE ATTACKS. JOURNALISTS HAVE BEEN MURDERED; THERE HAS BEEN A SYSTEMATIC INTIMIDATION OF THE PRESS AND ATTEMPTS TO CURB FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION; AND MEMBERS OF THE DEATH SQUADS LINKED TO ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON HAVE BEEN RELEASED FROM PRISON. THERE HAVE BEEN THREATS OF SEIZING LAND THAT BELONGS TO COOPERATIVES; THERE HAVE BEEN ANNOUNCEMENTS THAT THE BANKING SYSTEM AND FOREIGN TRADE WILL BE PRIVATIZED AND THAT MANY GOVERNMENT WORKERS WILL BE FIRED. THERE IS A CLIMATE OF TERROR THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY. THIS CLIMATE OF TERROR IS THE RESULT OF THE ARROGANCE AND THE DESIRE FOR REVENGE ON THE PART OF ARENA AND SECTORS OF THE ARMED FORCES. ARENA HAS CLEARLY STATED THAT IT WILL HAVE A POLICY OF KILLINGS AND TOTAL WARFARE AND HAS GIVEN NO SIGN OF WANTING PEACE.</p><p>IT IS URGENT THAT AN ADEQUATE FRAMEWORK FOR DIALOGUE BE CREATED. THIS MEANS ARENA MUST:</p><p>1. CEASE ALL KILLINGS, ARRESTS, DISAPPEARANCES, AND TERRORIST ATTACKS ON CIVILIANS; IT MUST RESPECT THE PRESS AND FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION AND PUT AN END TO MILITARIZATION OF WORKPLACES, MILITARY CORDONS, AND ALL REPRESSIVE ACTIONS PERPETRATED BY THE ARMED FORCES AND THE DEATH SQUADS.</p><p>2. ARENA MUST RESPECT THE NATIONALIZATION OF BANKS, FOREIGN TRADE, AND AGRARIAN REFORM. IT MUST ENSURE THAT COOPERATIVES' PROPERTY WILL BE RESPECTED; THAT THERE WILL BE NO APPROPRIATION HEARINGS INVOLVING PEOPLE WHO HAVE BENEFITED FROM AGRARIAN REFORM; AND THAT THERE WILL BE NO ECONOMIC MEASURES AIMED AT FORCING THOSE PEOPLE INTO BANKRUPTCY OR INTO SELLING THEIR LAND. LIKEWISE, ARENA MUST PROMISE THAT THERE WILL BE NO MASS DISMISSALS OF GOVERNMENT WORKERS.</p><p>3. ARENA MUST PROMISE A REAL DIALOGUE AND NOT A USELESS DIALOGUE AIMED AT BRINGING ABOUT THE FMLN'S SURRENDER. ARENA, AND THE SECTORS IT REPRESENTS, HAS AND ALWAYS HAS HAD REAL POWER. THEY ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL THAT HAPPENS IN THE COUNTRY. THEY CANNOT CLAIM, AS SALVADORAN PRESIDENT JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE AND THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY HAVE CLAIMED, A LACK OF AUTHORITY TO CONTROL REPRESSION OR A LACK OF POWER TO NEGOTIATE.</p><p>ARENA HAS ECONOMIC, JUDICIAL, AND LEGISLATIVE POWER AND IT HAS EVEN SEIZED POWER IN THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH. ARENA HAS ITS OWN PARAMILITARY FORCES, DEATH SQUADS, AND CONTROLS AN IMPORTANT SECTOR OF THE ARMED FORCES. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>