<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0891"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0891"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0891</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0891 (GTE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 28 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] WE HAVE RECEIVED A REPORT ADVISING US THAT AT 0200 [0800 GMT] TODAY, FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] FORCES ATTACKED A GROUP OF PARATROOPERS AT THE INSA [EXPANSION UNKNOWN] FACTORY IN SOYAPANGO. THE REPORT ALSO ADDS THAT SINCE EARLY THIS MORNING, FIGHTING HAS BEEN GOING ON IN GUADALUPE NEIGHBORHOOD, ALSO IN SOYAPANGO. REPORTS FROM OTHER AREAS OF SAN SALVADOR SPEAK OF HEAVY CLASHES SINCE EARLY THIS MORNING. THE REPORT STATES THAT AT 0200 TODAY, FMLN UNITS ATTACKED TWO 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE COBRA BATTALION COMPANIES IN SAN SALVADOR. THE TROOPS WERE IN EL CARMEN HILL, AYUTUXTEPEQUE JURISDICTION. THE REPORT ADDS THAT THE FMLN INFLICTED TWO DEAD AND THREE WOUNDED, INCLUDING A SERGEANT AND A CORPORAL. THIS MEANS THAT THE 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE IS ALREADY IN SAN SALVADOR. THIS IS THE WAY THINGS ARE IN SAN SALVADOR: SONSONATE TROOPS, 5TH INFANTRY BRIGADE TROOPS, AND 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE TROOPS ARE IN SAN SALVADOR. THIS IS PROOF OF HOW BAD THE ENEMY IS DOING.</p><p>THE REPORT ADDS THAT SINCE THIS MORNING, FIGHTING AGAINST ATLACATL BATTALION TROOPS WAS REPORTED IN THE AREA AROUND EL CARMEN HILL. THE ATLACATL BATTALION TROOPS WERE GOING TO REINFORCE THE COWARDLY 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE TROOPS, WHO HAVE LEFT CHALATENANGO AND ARE NOW IN SAN SALVADOR. THE FIGHTING ENDED AT 0930 [1530 GMT].</p><p>WE REPEAT: AT 0200 TODAY, FMLN UNITS ATTACKED A GROUP OF PARATROOPERS AT THE INSA FACTORY IN SOYAPANGO. FIGHTING WAS ALSO REPORTED IN SAN JACINTO, MEJICANOS, AYUTUXTEPEQUE, SOYAPANGO, SANTA EDUVIGES, ESCANDIA NEIGHBORHOOD, EL CARMEN NEIGHBORHOOD, AND OTHER AREAS OF SAN SALVADOR. WE ARE WAITING FOR MORE REPORTS BECAUSE WE HAVE LEARNED THAT FIGHTING HAS RESUMED IN THE CAPITAL CITY.</p><p>TO ADD TO THE REPORT WE HAVE RECEIVED FROM SAN SALVADOR, WE WISH TO STATE THAT HEAVY FIGHTING OCCURRED THIS MORNING IN GUADALUPE NEIGHBORHOOD, SOYAPANGO. AT 0600 [1200 GMT], NATIONAL GUARD TROOPS WERE AMBUSHED AT KM 11 ON THE NORTHERN TRUNK ROAD. THE NATIONAL GUARD SUFFERED DEAD AND WOUNDED DURING THAT AMBUSH. WE WILL HAVE MORE INFORMATION ON THIS AMBUSH LATER.</p></body></html>