<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1092"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1092"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1092</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1092 (UNISYS)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 24 JAN 90 (EL GRAFICO) -- [EDITORIAL] [TEXT] A SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL MISSION, MADE UP OF PROMINENT LEADERS OF THAT ORGANIZATION, ARRIVED IN THE COUNTRY ON 23 JANUARY TO "DEMAND" THAT THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT CONDUCT AN EXHAUSTIVE INVESTIGATION INTO THE MURDER OF SALVADORAN OPPOSITION LEADER HECTOR OQUELI COLINDRES AND GUATEMALAN GILDA FLORES. THEIR KIDNAPPING AND SUBSEQUENT MURDER TOOK PLACE IN OUR COUNTRY AND THUS, GUATEMALAN AUTHORITIES, WITHOUT ANY KIND OF MEDDLING, SHOULD SOLVE THIS CASE. GUATEMALAN COURTS OF JUSTICE HAVE THE DUTY TO REQUEST, AS PART OF THE INVESTIGATION, THE TESTIMONIES OF WITNESSES AND CONCLUSIONS OF EXPERTS INVOLVED IN THE CASE. ACCORDING TO GUATEMALAN LAW, THERE IS A PERIOD ALLOTTED FOR INITIAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING WHICH NO PUBLIC STATEMENTS CAN BE MADE OR PRESSURES EXERTED WHICH MIGHT HAMPER THE COURSE OF JUSTICE.</p><p>THIS IS WHY THE FACT THAT A DELEGATION, WHICH IS MADE UP OF RESPECTABLE PEOPLE WHO DESERVE OUR ADMIRATION, NOT ONLY BECAUSE OF THEIR OUTSTANDING POLITICAL VIRTUES, BUT ALSO BECAUSE OF THEIR HONEST BEHAVIOR AS CITIZENS, IS COMING TO "DEMAND" THAT OUR AUTHORITIES INVESTIGATE THE CRIME, AS IF THEY WERE NOT ALREADY OFFICIALLY DOING SO, IS TO A CERTAIN EXTENT HAMPERING JUSTICE. IT HAPPENS THAT THE ILLUSTRIOUS VISITORS CAME HERE WITH THE EVIDENT GOAL OF ACCUSING THE ALLEGED AUTHORS OF THE DOUBLE CRIME. IN PUBLIC STATEMENTS, THEY HAVE ALREADY SAID THAT "FORCES OF THE GUATEMALAN AND SALVADORAN EXTREME RIGHT" MURDERED THEM. THESE STATEMENTS ARE AS UNCALLED FOR AS THOSE UTTERED BY PRESIDENT CRISTIANI IN EL SALVADOR WHEN HE SAID THAT THE MURDERERS OF THE SIX UCA [CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY] JESUITS WERE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] GUERRILLAS AND WAS LATER FORCED TO RETRACT, WHEN THE INVESTIGATIONS REVEALED THAT MEMBERS OF THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES CARRIED OUT THE MURDER.</p><p>IN THE FACE OF DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL PRESSURE, AND THE COMDEMNATION OF THE BRUTAL MURDER OF THE SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC LEADERS, PRESIDENT CEREZO DECIDED TO ESTABLISH AN INVESTIGATIVE COMMISSION TO WHICH HE PLANS TO ADD A REPRESENTATIVE OF AN INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION. ON 23 JANUARY THE SOCIALIST DELEGATE WHO IS IN THE COUNTRY (WITHOUT NAMING IT) CLEARLY REFERRED TO A LEGALLY REGISTERED GUATEMALAN POLITICAL PARTY, WHICH ENJOYS FULL POLITICAL RIGHTS, AS THE "NANNY" PARTY OF THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE, ARENA, OF EL SALVADOR. HE IS LEVELLING SERIOUS CHARGES, WHICH COULD EVEN CREATE LEGAL AND POLITICAL CONFLICTS BETWEEN GUATEMALA AND EL SALVADOR, BY INSISTING THAT THE CRIME WAS POLITICALLY MOTIVATED, WHICH SEEMS TO BE EVIDENT, AND BY LINKING THE CRIME TO POLITICAL PARTIES OF THE TWO COUNTRIES. WITH THE DUE RESPECT THAT THE PRESIDENTIAL COMMISSION DESERVES, THE SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE SHOULD BE CONSULTED ABOUT WHAT SHOULD BE DONE NEXT BECAUSE THE CASE IS UNDER THE PURVIEW OF GUATEMALAN COURTS, ESPECIALLY THOSE IN JUTIAPA JURISDICTION. THOSE COURTS SHOULD BE THE ONES TASKED WITH COLLECTING THE EVIDENCE, ISSUING THE SUMMONS, AND MAKING THE NECESSARY STATEMENTS. ANYTHING ELSE CONSTITUTES INTERFERING WITH JUSTICE. IN THIS REGARD, THE FACT THAT PRESIDENT CEREZO IS GUESSING ABOUT WHO MIGHT BE THE AUTHOR OF THIS REPUDIABLE BLOODY MURDER IS INAPPROPRIATE BECAUSE IT IS NOT HIS DUTY TO DO SO, EVEN IF THE SOCIALISTS THREATEN TO SEEK CONDEMNATION AGAINST GUATEMALA AT THE UNITED NATIONS FOR VIOLATIONS OF HUMAN RIGHTS WHICH ARE LOOMING OVER HIS GOVERNMENT.</p></body></html>