<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0299"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0299"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0299</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0299 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 18 JUL 89 (RADIO FARABUNDO MARTI) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN)] [TEXT] CONCERNING MONDAY'S INCIDENTS NEAR EL SALVADOR UNIVERSITY, THE FMLN STATES:</p><p>1. NONE OF OUR UNITS WERE OPERATING AROUND EL SALVADOR UNIVERSITY OR THE NORTHERN SECTOR OF THE CAPITAL ON THAT DAY.</p><p>2. THE CLASHES THAT OCCURRED NEAR THE UNIVERSITY WERE CARRIED OUT BY ARMED FORCES TROOPS ALONE. IN AN EFFORT TO SEARCH THE UNIVERSITY, THE TROOPS FIRED THEIR WEAPONS [WORDS INDISTINCT] AS STUDENT DEMONSTRATORS WERE ENTERING THE CAMPUS.</p><p>3. THIS ACTION IS PART OF A PLAN THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT AND THE TOP COMMAND OF THE ARMED FORCES ARE PROMOTING AGAINST EL SALVADOR UNIVERSITY. THIS PLAN IS BEING CARRIED OUT BY COLONEL FRANCISCO ELENA FUENTES, COMMANDER OF THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE. THE PLAN INVOLVES THREATS, ARRESTS, MURDERS, AND OTHER REPRESSIVE ACTS.</p><p>4. IT IS PREDICTABLE THAT THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT AND THE TOP COMMAND OF THE ARMED FORCES WILL SAY THAT WHAT OCCURRED AT THE UNIVERSITY WAS THE RESULT OF A CLASH BETWEEN THE ARMY AND THE FMLN, AND THIS IS COMPLETELY FALSE. CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES ARE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE VIOLENT INCIDENTS THAT CLAIMED SEVERAL VICTIMS IN THE AREA AROUND EL SALVADOR UNIVERSITY.</p><p>[SIGNED] [FMLN, EL SALVADOR, 17 JULY 1989]</p></body></html>