<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0924"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0924"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0924</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0924 (GTE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] NOW THEY ARE STILL DOING THE SAME THING, EXCEPT THAT THE KILLINGS ARE THOSE OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS, THE PLACES BURNED ARE HOMES IN THE DENSELY POPULATED NEIGHBORHOODS AND THE UN HEADQUARTERS, AND THOSE ACCUSED OF COLLABORATING WITH THE FMLN ARE THE EPISCOPAL CHURCHES. THE STRATEGY IS THE SAME. THE FMLN CONTINUES TO STRIKE AT AND MOCK THE ARMED FORCES. FAR FROM DIMINISHING IN NUMBER, IT HAS INCREASED IN NUMBER. THE PERSECUTION OF THE CHURCH, THE INDISCRIMINATE BOMBINGS, THE PRESS CENSORSHIP, AND, ABOVE ALL, THE APPARENT DIRECTION TAKEN BY THE SITUATION AS A RESULT OF THE ARMED FORCES' LEADERSHIP HAVE SHOWN THE WORLD THAT NOTHING HAS CHANGED. THE MILITARY CONTINUES TO BE IN COMMAND, AND CRISTIANI'S MODERATION WAS BUT A COSTLY MAKEOVER.</p><p>THE U.S. ANALYSTS ARE BEGINNING TO REACT. AFTER 9 YEARS OF INVESTING AT ALL LEVELS TO PUT AN END TO THE CAPITAL AND THE PRINCIPAL CITIES OF THE COUNTRY WITH A STRATEGIC SIEGE, WITH THE THEATER OF OPERATIONS IN THE TROUBLE SPOTS, AND WITHOUT ANY PROSPECT OF CONTROLLING THE SITUATION, THE ORDER OF THE DAY IN THE HALLS OF CONGRESS IS A CHANGE OF POLICY AND THE PROMOTION OF NEGOTIATION. ALL THE WORLD IS SUFFERING DEEPLY, WITHOUT THE HOPE OF A CHANGE OF POLICY. WHAT THE U.S. CONGRESS IS STUDYING IS WHETHER IT WILL CONTINUE WITH THAT POLICY WHICH DOES NOT CHANGE AT ALL, WHICH PROTECTS THE ASSASSINS OF MONSIGNOR ROMERO, THE FOUR U.S. NUNS, IGNACIO ELLACURIA, AND FIVE MORE JESUITS. IT IS STUDYING WHETHER IT IS GOING TO CONTINUE TO SUPPORT A FASCIST PARTY AND A CRIMINAL-RIDDEN ARMED FORCES AND THUS CONDEMN THIS PART OF THE WORLD SO CLOSE TO THEIR BORDERS TO TERRIBLE SUFFERING, OR WHETHER THE TIME OF CHANGE HAS ARRIVED IN THE UNITED STATES. THE POLICY TOWARD EL SALVADOR MUST BE CHANGED TO ACHIEVE THE GOAL OF DEMOCRACY SO THAT PLURALISM WILL GIVE WAY TO DEMOCRACY, JUSTICE, AND PEACE. THE UNITED STATES CAN CONTRIBUTE TO PEACE IN EL SALVADOR, BUT IN ORDER TO DO SO IT MUST CHANGE ITS POLICY.</p></body></html>