<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0696"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0696"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0696</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0696 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 NOV 89 -- [SPEECH] [DEFENSE MINISTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE PEOPLE ARE PUNISHING THE FMLN. THIS VIOLENCE, THIS BLOODSHED CAUSED BY THIS TERRORIST AGGRESSION -- SPECIFICALLY THAT BLOOD -- IS PRECISELY THE INSPIRATION WE HAVE FOR DEFEATING AND BREAKING THE WILL TO FIGHT OF THIS TERRORIST FMLN. WE WILL PREVAIL; WE WILL WIN. FIRST, BECAUSE WE HAVE THE TRUTH; SECOND, BECAUSE WE BELIEVE THAT, AS CHRISTIANS, GOD IS WITH US; AND THIRD, BECAUSE WE HAVE AN INDOMITABLE ESPRIT DE CORPS AS A PROFESSIONAL ARMY, AND WE ARE DETERMINED TODAY -- AS BEFORE AND AS ALWAYS -- TO DEFEND OUR TERRITORY, OUR HISTORY, OUR VALUES, OUR PRINCIPLES, AND TO DEFEND AND PROTECT THE DIGNITY OF EACH AND EVERY SALVADORAN CITIZEN.</p><p>WE ARE DEEPLY THANKFUL TO OUR PEOPLE FOR THEIR COURAGEOUS AND HEROIC ATTITUDE. WE ARE DEEPLY THANKFUL FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT THE PEOPLE HAVE GIVEN THE ARMED FORCES. WE TAKE IT AS A CHALLENGE, AND YOU CAN REST ASSURED, SALVADORAN PEOPLE, THAT JUST AS I, A SOLDIER OF THIS FATHERLAND AND OF OUR ARMED FORCES, HAVE, ALL OF THOSE BEHIND ME HAVE THE SAME RESOLVE TO STRUGGLE AND THE SAME SPIRIT TO FACE -- TODAY, TOMORROW, AND ALWAYS -- THE TERRORIST CHALLENGE TO WHICH, TODAY AND IN THE COMING HOURS, WE WILL RESPOND BY GIVING THEM A LESSON IN PROFESSIONALISM. OUR ATTITUDE IS PRECISELY ONE OF DEFENDING AND GUARANTEEING THOSE RIGHTS, THAT SPIRIT, AND THAT RESOLVE, AND OF DEFENDING AND GUARANTEEING THE SUPREME POSTULATES CONTAINED IN THE CONSTITUTION.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WE ASK FOR YOUR CONFIDENCE, FAITH, AND HOPE IN GOD AND IN THE ARMED FORCES. REST ASSURED THAT VERY SHORTLY WE WILL HAVE VICTORY ON OUR SIDE. THANK YOU FOR THE SUPPORT, FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT, AND -- SALVADORAN PEOPLE -- RECEIVE FROM THE ARMED FORCES RESPECTFUL AND CORDIAL GREETINGS, AND THE ASSURANCES THAT YOUR ARMED FORCES WILL VERY SOON RESOLVE THIS VIOLENCE IMPOSED BY INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM.</p><p>AS THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC REQUESTED, WE RECOMMEND THAT YOU REMAIN CALM AND STAY AT HOME. I BELIEVE THAT FOR REASONS OF YOUR OWN SECURITY, IT IS NOT ADVISABLE TO LEAVE YOUR HOMES. THE SITUATION IS BEING CONTROLLED SLOWLY.</p><p>THE MAIN PROBLEMS NOW ARE IN THE NORTHERN SECTOR OF THE CAPITAL CITY. WE BELIEVE THAT WE WILL HAVE FULL CONTROL OF THE SITUATION WITHIN THE NEXT FEW HOURS. MEANWHILE, SALVADORAN PEOPLE, HAVE FAITH, HOPE, AND CONFIDENCE IN YOUR ARMED FORCES, IN GOD AND IN THE DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS OF OUR PEOPLE. THANK YOU AND GOOD AFTERNOON.</p></body></html>