<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1242"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1242"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1242</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1242 (BOEING)</p><p>BOGOTA, 24 APR 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE LEFTIST PATRIOTIC UNION (UP) TODAY ASKED COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO TO BE ADMITTED TO THE NEGOTIATIONS THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS HOLDING WITH DIVERSE POLITICAL GROUPS TO REACH AN AGREEMENT THAT WILL PERMIT THE INTRODUCTION OF NATIONAL CONSTITUTIONAL REFORMS.</p><p>THE UP NATIONAL DIRECTORATE MET TODAY WITH BARCO AND GAVE HIM A LETTER NOTING THAT THE EXCLUSION OF SOCIAL FORCES IN THE NEGOTIATIONS MAY AGAIN BE A MOCKERY OF THE PEOPLE. IT AGAIN ASKED FOR PROTECTION FOR THE LIVES OF ITS MILITANTS.</p><p>SINCE IT WAS FOUNDED IN 1985, MORE THAN 1,000 UP MEMBERS HAVE BEEN KILLED THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE UP EXPLAINS IN ITS LETTER THAT THE ASSASSINATION ON 22 MARCH OF BERNARDO JARAMILLO, ITS PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE, FORCED IT TO WITHDRAW FROM THE 27 MAY ELECTIONS. THIS DID NOT DETER IT, HOWEVER, FROM ITS STRUGGLE FOR A PLEBISCITE AND FROM CALLING FOR A NATIONAL, POPULAR AND DEMOCRATIC CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY.</p><p>THE UP ADDED THAT A CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY, WHICH WILL REPRESENT ALL POPULAR SECTORS, WILL BE CHARGED WITH DRAFTING CONSTITUTIONAL REFORMS. THE REFORMS MUST THEN BE SUBMITTED TO A PLEBISCITE.</p><p>A WEEK AGO, THE LIBERAL PARTY, SOCIAL CONSERVATIVE PARTY, 19 APRIL MOVEMENT (M-19), AND NATIONAL SALVATION MOVEMENT MET TO TRY TO REACH AN AGREEMENT THAT WILL PERMIT HOLDING A NATIONAL PLEBISCITE ON 27 MAY TO APPROVE SUBSTANTIAL REFORMS TO THE STATE.</p><p>GOVERNMENT MINISTER HORACIO SERPA URIBE STATED THAT THE ADMINISTRATION HAS NOT AND DOES NOT SEEK TO IMPOSE ITS CRITERIA ON THE WILL TO EFFECT CONSTITUTIONAL REFORM. HE ADDED THAT THE GOVERNMENT'S POSITION IS VERY CLEAR AND SEEKS TO RESPOND TO THE WILL OF THE PEOPLE.</p><p>ALSO, THE UP CONVENED POLITICAL PARTIES, SOCIAL FORCES, STUDENTS, AND COLOMBIANS IN GENERAL WHO WERE EXCLUDED FROM THESE NEGOTIATIONS, TO UNITE A PROPOSAL ON THE 27 MAY PLEBISCITE.</p><p>FINALLY, THE UP DIRECTORATE ASKED, AS A CONTRIBUTION TO PEACE IN THE COUNTRY, TO BE ABLE TO MEET WITH THE REBEL FORCES.</p></body></html>