<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1271"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1271"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1271</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1271 (BOEING)</p><p>LIMA, 7 MAY 90 (AFP) -- [TEXT] THE POLICE CONFIRMED TODAY THAT PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE ALBERTO FUJIMORI ESCAPED A DYNAMITE ATTACK PERPETRATED BY A SHINING PATH CELL ON 6 MAY. ACCORDING TO THE POLICE, THE DYNAMITE CHARGE WAS DETONATED ON THE ROUTE FOLLOWED BY FUJIMORI'S MOTORCADE IN THE DISTRICT CAPITAL OF SAN JUAN DE LURIGANCHO.</p><p>THE ATTACKERS LEFT FLIERS IDENTIFYING THEMSELVES AS MEMBERS OF THE MOVEMENT FOR THE PEOPLE'S DEFENSE, A SHINING PATH FRONT ORGANIZATION. DORA VILCHEZ, A 26-YEAR-OLD WOMAN, WAS INJURED IN THE ATTACK.</p><p>FUJIMORI, WHO WILL CONTEND WITH WRITER MARIO VARGAS LLOSA IN A RUNOFF ELECTION DURING THE FIRST HALF OF JUNE, WAS ONLY INFORMED OF THE ATTACK BY HIS AIDES AFTER THE POLICE HAD TIGHTENED THEIR SECURITY AROUND HIM. THE "CHANGE 90" LEADER MINIMIZED THE ATTACK AND CONTINUED HIS SCHEDULED ACTIVITIES.</p><p>THE POLICE SAID THAT A SHINING PATH GROUP MANAGED TO INFILTRATE A CROWD OF DEMONSTRATORS AND SET OFF THE DYNAMITE CHARGE ON THE ROUTE FOLLOWED BY FUJIMORI'S MOTORCADE, NEAR A LOCAL MARKET, ON THE EASTERN SIDE OF LIMA.</p><p>VILCHEZ, WHO WAS SERIOUSLY INJURED, WAS HOSPITALIZED.</p><p>THE BOMB SQUAD UNIT (UDE) DEFUSED ANOTHER EXPLOSIVE DEVICE NEAR THE MARKET.</p><p>THE FLIERS DISSEMINATED BY THE TERRORISTS URGED THE PEOPLE NOT TO VOTE IN THE RUNOFF ELECTION. ONE OF THE FLIERS SAID: "NEITHER FUJIMORI NOR VARGAS LLOSA IS THE SOLUTION BECAUSE THEY BOTH REPRESENT THE RIGHT WING. LONG LIVE THE ARMED STRUGGLE. PCP.SL." EXPANSION UNKNOWN</p></body></html>