<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0520"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0520"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0520</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0520 (UMASS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 26 SEP 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS ACCUSED THE GOVERNMENT OF NOT WANTING TO NEGOTIATE THE END OF THE WAR AND INCREASING THE "REPRESSION" AGAINST WORKERS.</p><p>IN A LETTER DISCLOSED ON MONDAY, 25 SEPTEMBER, AND SENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS, THE OAS, AND THE FOREIGN MINISTRIES OF EUROPE AND THE AMERICAS, THE REBELS SAY THAT SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI AND OTHER GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIES "ARE MAINTAINING THEIR INFLEXIBILITY, USING THE CONSTITUTION AS AN EXCUSE."</p><p>THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) IS WARNING THAT THERE ARE TWO STANCES IN THE FACE OF THE DIALOGUE: ONE IS OF "FLEXIBILITY AND GOODWILL," AND THE OTHER, OF "INFLEXIBILITY AND PROVOCATION THAT USES THE DIALOGUE TO ESCALATE THE WAR AND REPRESSION."</p><p>IN ITS LETTER, THE FMLN GAVE A RUNDOWN OF ITS BIDS TO "PROMOTE A DIALOGUE - NEGOTIATION" WITH THE GOVERNMENT, MENTIONING ITS UNILATERAL TRUCE AND DECISION TO STOP SABOTAGING THE ELECTRICITY AND TELEPHONE NETWORKS AND USING MINES.</p><p>IN ADDITION, THE GROUP NOTED IT SUBMITTED A PROPOSAL "THAT IS VERY FLEXIBLE IN ACHIEVING PEACE," AND THAT CONSIDERS THE END OF HOSTILITIES AND THE POSSIBILITY THAT THE REBELS MAY BECOME A POLITICAL PARTY.</p><p>HOWEVER, THE REBELS STATED THE GOVERNMENT HAS INCREASED HUMAN RIGHTS "VIOLATIONS," AND IS KEEPING A CIRCLE AROUND THE UNIVERSITY CAMPUS AND TRADE UNIONS, YET IT WANTS DILATORY TALKS WITHOUT COMMITTMENTS.</p><p>THE FMLN SAID THE APPROVAL BY THE U.S. SENATE OF MILITARY AID TO EL SALVADOR, UPPING IT FROM $85 TO $90 MILLION, "ENCOURAGES THE MOST HARD LINE SECTOR OF THE CURRENT SALVADORAN REGIME."</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE GUERRILLAS, THE MILITARY AID "CONSTITUTES A HARD BLOW AGAINST THE POSSIBILITY OF FINDING A NEGOTIATED POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE CONFLICT," THAT IN 9 YEARS HAS CLAIMED OVER 70,000 LIVES.</p><p>GOVERNMENT AND FMLN DELEGATIONS MET FROM 13 TO 15 SEPTEMBER IN MEXICO AND PLEDGED TO SEEK A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THAT COUNTRY'S STRIFE.</p><p>THE TWO DELEGATIONS AGREED TO CONTINUE THE TALKS ON 16 AND 17 OCTOBER IN SAN JOSE TO ANALYZE THE POSSIBILITY OF A CEASE-FIRE AND ESTABLISH THE STEPS TO END THE WAR.</p><p>DIVERSE LOCAL SECTORS, WHICH ARE DEMANDING A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE WAR, HAVE RECEIVED THE AGREEMENTS WITH A GREAT DEAL OF OPTIMISM.</p><p>HOWEVER, SOME LEADERS OF RIGHTIST NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA) AND SOME MILITARY CHIEFS HAVE QUESTIONED THE FMLN'S OFFERS.</p></body></html>