<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0427"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0427"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0427</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0427 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 4 SEP 89 (CANAL SEIS TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] COLONEL ORLANDO MONTANO, DEPUTY MINISTER OF DEFENSE AND PUBLIC SECURITY, GAVE ASSURANCES TODAY THAT THE ARMED FORCES WILL ESTABLISH A TRUCE ON 14 AND 15 SEPTEMBER, AS REQUESTED BY THE PERMANENT DIALOGUE COMMITTEE, AND THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] HAS PLEDGED TO RESPECT IT.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MONTANO] THE NATIONAL DIALOGUE COMMITTEE'S PROPOSAL IS A GOOD ONE AND THE ARMED FORCES APPLAUDS IT, AND IS IN A POSITION TO ACCEPT IT, AS LONG AS THE FMLN ALSO COMPLIES WITH IT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>SPEAKING AT A NEWS CONFERENCE, COL MONTANO SAID THAT THE MAIMED FMLN FIGHTERS' PRESENCE AT THE METROPOLITAN CATHEDRAL IS AN INDICATION THAT FMLN LEADERS ABANDON THEIR FIGHTERS WHEN THEY CEASE TO BE USEFUL.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MONTANO] I BELIEVE THAT IF THE FMLN WANTED TO SEND THOSE PEOPLE ABROAD, AS THEY HAVE DONE IN THE PAST, THEY COULD VERY WELL HAVE DONE SO. THEY HAVE THE FIGHTERS AT THE CATHEDRAL FOR PROPAGANDA PURPOSES, AND TO GIVE THE IMPRESSION THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS INHUMANE. I HAVE EVEN READ AND HEARD STATEMENTS BY FMLN ALLIES WHO SAY THAT THE SITUATION OF THE MAIMED CANNOT BE NEGOTIATED FOR HUMANITARIAN REASONS. HOWEVER, DID THEY DISPLAY HUMANENESS WHEN THEY BURNED BUSES, LEFT THE PEOPLE WITHOUT ELECTRICITY, OR DESTROYED SO MANY THINGS THAT BENEFIT THE PUBLIC? [END RECORDING]</p><p>REFERRING TO THE HOMILY DELIVERED YESTERDAY BY MONSIGNOR GREGORIO ROSA CHAVEZ, AUXILIARY BISHOP OF SAN SALVADOR, WHO ACCUSED THE AIR FORCE OF BOMBING THE SANTA ELENA CHURCH IN USULUTAN DEPARTMENT, COL MONTANO SAID THAT SOME LEFTIST CLERGYMEN DISTORT THE FACTS FOR PROPAGANDA PURPOSES.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MONTANO] WITH THEIR HUMANITARIAN IMAGE, THEY OFTEN OPPOSE THE SEARCH FOR PEACE, THEY OPPOSE THE COUNTRY'S DEMOCRATIZATION AND, IN FACT, THEY OFTEN PLAY UP TO THE FMLN. IN REALITY THEIR ATTACKS AND DISPARAGING REMARKS ABOUT THE ARMED FORCES ARE UNFAIR. THEY BLAME THE ARMY FOR THINGS IT IS NOT GUILTY OF OR RESPONSIBLE FOR. [END RECORDING]</p><p>TO CONCLUDE, THE MILITARY OFFICER SAID THE ARMY IS CARRYING OUT AN OPERATION TO ENSURE SAFETY DURING THE INDEPENDENCE FESTIVITIES.</p></body></html>