<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0113"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0113"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0113</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0113 (BELLCORE)</p><p>BOGOTA, 26 OCT 89 -- [TEXT] DRUG TRAFFICKER JOSE GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA, AKA "THE MEXICAN," HAS DENIED HE REQUESTED, THROUGH A LETTER, AN ALLIANCE WITH THE REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (FARC).</p><p>THIS WAS STATED IN A LETTER ADDRESSED TO LA PRENSA DIRECTOR JUAN CARLOS PASTRANA. RODRIGUEZ GACHA SENT COPIES OF THIS LETTER TO ALL MEDIA.</p><p>THE TEXT OF THE LETTER FOLLOWS:</p><p>MR PASTRANA:</p><p>AN ARTICLE ON PAGE 1 OF YOUR 19 OCTOBER NEWSPAPER MAINTAINS THAT VERY RELIABLE SOURCES HAD DISCLOSED THAT JOSE GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA SENT A MESSAGE TO THE FARC LEADERS LAST WEEK PROPOSING AN ALLIANCE WITH THAT SUBVERSIVE GROUP.</p><p>THE TRUTH IS THAT SUCH A LETTER DOES NOT EXIST AND THAT I HAVE SENT NO MESSAGE TO ANY OF THE PEOPLE MENTIONED IN YOUR NEWSPAPER.</p><p>HOWEVER, THE WORST PART OF THIS IS THAT THE EVIL INTENTION OF THE ALLEGED WRITERS OF THE LETTER REACHES THE LIMIT BECAUSE THEY PORTRAY ME AS THE SELF-CONFESSED CULPRIT OF ALL CRIMES PERPETRATED AGAINST UP [PATRIOTIC UNION] LEADERS. IT IS TRUE I WAS ACCUSED OF THE [FORMER UP LEADER JAIME] PARDO LEAL ASSASSINATION. HOWEVER, THE COURTS HAVE ALREADY ISSUED A VERDICT OF NOT GUILTY. NO MAN HAS EVER BEEN PURSUED IN COLOMBIA WITH SUCH MALICE. IT SEEMS THAT THE ENTIRE PENAL CODE HAS FALLEN UPON ME, WHILE MY OPPONENTS ARE COMPLETELY IGNORED.</p><p>REGARDING THE REST OF THE LETTER, IT DOES NOT EVEN DESERVE MENTIONING BECAUSE SUCH A LETTER DOES NOT EXIST. THEREFORE, EVERYTHING IS FALSE. MOREOVER, ALL SECTORS ARE FULLY AWARE OF MY PRINCIPLES AND MY STRUGGLE TOWARD THE SO-CALLED FARC GROUPS.</p><p>I CLEARLY WANT TO STRESS MY AGREEMENT WITH THE PROPOSALS MADE BY THE M-19 [19 APRIL MOVEMENT], ESPECIALLY THOSE DEALING WITH CEASING OFFENSIVE OPERATIONS AGAINST THE ARMED FORCES AND THE DEFINITE LAYING DOWN OF WEAPONS. THESE ARE THE FIRST STEPS TOWARD MAKING COLOMBIA SIT AT THE NEGOTIATING TABLE, WITH NO EXCLUSIONS.</p><p>THIS IS MY POSITION, AND THIS IS THE TRUTH. I AM AWARE THAT THE MISSION OF EACH ONE OF YOU, AS COLOMBIANS, IS TO BRING PEACE BACK TO COLOMBIA.</p><p>YOURS FAITHFULLY,</p><p>JOSE GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA</p></body></html>