<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1162"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1162"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1162</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1162 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>NO CITY, NO DATE (FBIS) -- [TEXT]</p><p>COLOMBIA: DRUG KINGPINS SOLE MEMBERS OF 'EXTRADITABLES'</p><p>THE 22 JANUARY EDITION OF THE BOGOTA DAILY EL TIEMPO PUBLISHED INFORMATION FROM COLOMBIAN POLICE INTELLIGENCE REPORTS AND STATE SECURITY INTERCEPTS IDENTIFYING DRUG KINGPINS PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA AND JORGE LUIS OCHOA VASQUE AS THE ONLY MEMBERS OF THE SO-CALLED "EXTRADITABLES." THIS PRESS NOTE PROVIDES HIGHLIGHTS OF THE 22 JANUARY ARTICLE.</p><p>DRUG BARONS PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA AND JORGE LUIS OCHOA VASQUE, WHO ARE REPUTED TO BE THE BRAINS BEHIND THE MEDELLIN CARTEL'S PLAN TO SURRENDER TO THE GOVERNMENT, HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED BY THE NATIONAL POLICE AND STATE SECURITY AS THE ONLY ONES RESPONSIBLE FOR THE COMMUNIQUES SENT BY THE SO-CALLED "EXTRADITABLES," ACCORDING TO THE EL TIEMPO ARTICLE.</p><p>STATE SECURITY RECOGNI ED ESCOBAR'S VOICE IN A CONVERSATION INTERCEPTED DURING A ROUTINE RADIO SCANNING OPERATION, WHICH REVEALED THAT THE CARTEL WAS PLANNING TO SURRENDER TO THE GOVERNMENT. ESCOBAR WAS ACTING AS THE CARTEL'S INTERMEDIARY IN CHARGE OF CONTACTING LAWYER GUIDO PARRA, THE LIAISON BETWEEN THE CARTEL AND HIGH LEVEL GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS. ESCOBAR DID NOT DISCLOSE THE NAMES OF THE OFFICIALS INVOLVED.</p><p>A NATIONAL POLICE INTELLIGENCE REPORT SAYS THAT OCHOA AND ESCOBAR FIND THEMSELVES IN A PRECARIOUS SITUATION BECAUSE OTHER TRAFFICKER GROUPS HAVE WITHDRAWN THEIR SUPPORT AS THEY DO NOT WANT TO BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE FOR KIDNAPPINGS AND OTHER TERRORIST ACTS THEY HAVE NOT PERPETRATED. THE REPORT FURTHER INDICATES THAT ESCOBAR, PRESSURED BY MILITARY OPERATIONS IN ANTIOQUIA, "WAS FORCED TO ORDER THE KIDNAPPINGS OF ALVARO DIEGO MONTOYA, (SON OF THE SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE PRESIDENCY) AND PATRICIA ECHEVARRIA (SISTER OF PRESIDENT BARCO'S SON-IN-LAW) AND HER DAUGHTER." THESE HIGH PROFILE HOSTAGES SERVED AS A "PROTECTIVE SHIELD," ACCORDING TO THE ARTICLE.</p><p>SPOKESMEN FOR THE INTELLIGENCE CORPS ARE QUOTED AS SAYING THAT ESCOBAR KNEW THAT BY TAKING HOSTAGE THE SON OF THE SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE PRESIDENCY, HE COULD SUCCESSFULLY EXERT THE PRESSURE HE NEEDED TO ACT IN THE NAME OF THE "EXTRADITABLES." PROBLEMS BEGAN TO SURFACE SOON AFTER THE CARTEL'S SURRENDER, AS MEMBERS AT ODDS WITH ESCOBAR STARTED TO BREAK AWAY FROM THE GROUP. ACCORDING TO MEDELLIN OFFICIALS, THE KIDNAPPINGS OF MONTOYA AND ECHEVARRIA ALSO HAD AN IMPACT ON THE RATE OF ATTRITION AMONG THE "EXTRADITABLES.</p><p>THE CARTEL'S SURRENDER IS NOT SEEN AS A SURPRISE: THE 4TH ARMY BRIGADE WAS CONDUCTING AN EXHAUSTIVE SEARCH OF THE ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT IN AN EFFORT TO BRING THE KINGPINS TO JUSTICE. MOREOVER, THE ARMY LAUNCHED A PUBLICITY CAMPAIGN AMONG THE LOCALS TO ENCOURAGE THEM TO INFORM AGAINST THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS. FOLLOWING THE DEATH OF JOSE GON ALO RODRIGUE GACHA, ESCOBAR AND OCHOA WERE CONSTANTLY ON THE MOVE.</p><p>A SPOKESMAN FOR STATE SECURITY STATES THAT SOPHISTICATED COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT IN MEDELLIN ENABLED THEM TO LEARN ABOUT ESCOBAR'S INTENTIONS ALMOST ON A DAILY BASIS. IT WAS DIFFICULT TO ESTABLISH THEIR EXACT WHEREABOUTS, HOWEVER, BECAUSE THEY NEVER REMAINED IN ONE PLACE FOR MORE THAN SIX HOURS AT A TIME. THE TWO DRUG BARONS ALWAYS TRAVELED WITH AN ESCORT OF SIX TO EIGHT MEN WHOM THEY TRUSTED IMPLICITLY.</p><p>ACCORDING TO A HIGH-RANKING MILITARY OFFICIAL, "WHEN ESCOBAR BEGAN LOSING POWER IN MEDELLIN, HIS CLOSEST AIDES, FEARING PERSECUTION, WENT INTO HIDING." HE ADDS THAT ESCOBAR AND OCHOA TOOK ON THE CAUSE OF TRAFFICKERS WANTED BY THE UNITED STATES, BUT NOTES, "WE ARE WELL AWARE OF THE FACT THAT THE CALI CARTEL MEN DO THINGS DIFFERENTLY."</p><p>THE EL TIEMPO ARTICLE NOTES THAT ON 19 JANUARY SEVERAL LEADING COLOMBIAN NEWSPAPERS CIRCULATED A NOTICE POINTING TO ESCOBAR AS THE MAN WHO ACTS IN THE NAME OF THE "EXTRADITABLES." LATER, IT WAS CONFIRMED THAT THE AUTHORSHIP OF THE NOTICE WAS ATTRIBUTED TO A DEMENTED PERSON WHOSE NAME HAD CLEARLY BEEN USED. EL TIEMPO ASKS:. "COULD THIS BE A MESSAGE FROM OTHER DRUG TRAFFICKERS WHO ARE UNWILLING TO PAY FOR PABLO ESCOBAR'S ACTIONS? COULD IT BE A MESSAGE FROM THESE SAME TRAFFICKERS WHO DO NOT WANT TO GIVE UP THIS BUSINESS AND THEREFORE ARE UNWILLING TO HAVE ESCOBAR AND OCHOA SPEAK FOR THEM?"</p></body></html>