<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0088"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0088"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY (EL SALVADOR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0088</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0088 (NOSC)</p><p>NO CITY (EL SALVADOR), 28 MAR 89 (FBIS) -- [EDITORIAL REPORT] [TEXT] RADIO VENCEREMOS IN SPANISH TO EL SALVADOR AT 0000 GMT ON ON 29 MARCH BROADCASTS APPROXIMATELY 6 MINUTES OF WAR REPORTS.</p><p>THE FIRST OF THE REPORTS, ALL OF WHICH ARE READ BY THE STATION ANNOUNCER, DESCRIBES EVENTS IN CHALATENANGO. THE REPORT STATES THAT ON 27 MARCH AT 2100, FMLN UNITS BEGAN ATTACKING ATLACATL BATTALION POSITIONS IN PLAN DEL PICACHO, LA CEIBITA, AMATILLO, LA CEIBA AREA, TEMPISQUE HILL, AND EL COPINOL, ALL OF WHICH ARE WITHIN LAS VUELTAS JURISDICTION, CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT. THE ATTACK LASTED FOR 4 HOURS, AND WHEN IT CONCLUDED THE ARMY'S TROOPS HAD BEEN DISLODGED FROM THEIR POSITIONS IN LA CEIBITA AND PLAN DEL PICACHO. THE "ENEMY" SENT REINFORCEMENTS TO TEMPISQUE HILL AND EL COPINOL 1 HOUR LATER, BUT "THIS EFFORT PROVED USELESS" AND AIR SUPPORT HAD TO BE CALLED IN. THE CLASH LASTED UNTIL 0400 ON 28 MARCH, RESULTING IN NINE CASUALTIES.</p><p>THE STATION ANNOUNCER GOES ON TO REPORT THAT ON 28 MARCH AT 1000, SNIPER UNITS ENTERED PLAN DEL PICACHO AND INFLICTED THREE CASUALTIES ON THE ATLACATL BATTALION. ANOTHER REPORT FROM THE SAME AREA INDICATES THAT ON 27 MARCH AN ATLACATL BATTALION UNIT ENTERED A MINE FIELD SET UP BY THE FMLN IN PLAN DEL PICACHO, RESULTING IN THREE ARMY CASUALTIES. ALL IN ALL, OVER 2 DAYS THE FMLN CLAIMS TO HAVE INFLICTED 15 CASUALTIES ON THE ATLACATL BATTALION.</p><p>THE STATION ANNOUNCER GOES ON TO REPORT THAT ON 27 MARCH FMLN UNITS WITH RIFLES, RIFLE GRENADES, AND HOMEMADE ARTILLERY ATTACKED ARMY POSITIONS AT THE 5 NOVEMBER DAM. NO CASUALTY FIGURE WAS GIVEN FOR THIS ATTACK.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE STATION ANNOUNCER SAYS, THE FELICIANO AMA FRONT STATIONED IN SANTA ANA REPORTS THAT ON 26 MARCH FMLN UNITS AMBUSHED A SIX-VEHICLE MILITARY CONVOY TRANSPORTING TROOPS FROM THE 2D INFANTRY BRIGADE'S EL PIPIL BATTALION FROM METAPAN TO SANTA ANA. THE AMBUSH TOOK PLACE IN CASITAS, TEXISTEPEQUE JURISDICTION, WHEN TWO POWERFUL FELICIANO AMA MINES EXPLODED, INFLICTING EIGHT CASUALTIES ON THE ARMY AND TOTALLY DESTROYING A MILITARY VEHICLE.</p></body></html>