<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0304"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0304"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0304</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0304 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 20 JUL 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] WITH SIMULTANEOUS BOMB EXPLOSIONS IN THE HONDURAN CAPITAL AND LA CEIBA PORT, LOCATED APPROXIMATELY 355 KM FROM TEGUCIGALPA ON THE ATLANTIC COAST, A NEW GUERRILLA GROUP CALLING ITSELF THE "9 MAY" PEOPLE'S LIBERATION FORCES, FPL, ANNOUNCED ITS EMERGENCE AS ONE OF THE ARMED ORGANIZATIONS STRUGGLING FOR POWER.</p><p>THREE BOMBS WENT OFF SIMULTANEOUSLY IN TEGUCIGALPA, ONE AT THE CENTRAL PARK, ANOTHER AT THE STATE-RUN UNIVERSITY OF HONDURAS, AND ANOTHER AT A TRAINING SCHOOL FOR TEACHERS. AT THE SAME TIME, A BOMB EXPLODED AT A UNIVERSITY BRANCH IN LA CEIBA.</p><p>ALL THE BLASTS OCCURRED AT 1130 (LOCAL TIME). ONLY ONE PERSON WHO HAPPENED TO BE PASSING BY THE CENTRAL PARK IN TEGUCIGALPA AT THE TIME OF THE EXPLOSION WAS WOUNDED AS A RESULT OF THE BLASTS. A COMMUNIQUE ISSUED BY THE NEW GROUP POINTS OUT THAT "ONE DOES NOT WEEP FOR MARTYRS, BUT AVENGES THEM" AND ADDS THAT "TRAITOR INDIANS COME BEFORE THE INVADING GRINGOS."</p><p>THE PROCLAMATION CRITICIZES THE MURDER OF POPULAR LEADERS THAT TOOK PLACE IN THE COUNTRY IN EARLY JULY AND DENOUNCES OTHER LEFTIST LABOR AND GUERRILLA ORGANIZATIONS.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES, THROUGH ITS COMMANDER, GENERAL HUMBERTO REGALADO HERNANDEZ, RESPONDED IMMEDIATELY BY STATING THAT "THE ONLY REAL COMMUNISTS LEFT IN THE WORLD ARE HONDURANS, BECAUSE THEY ARE CHANGING IN OTHER COUNTRIES" AND ARE NO LONGER EXPLODING BOMBS.</p><p>THE MILITARY LEADER ASKED PEOPLE TO ATTACH NO SIGNIFICANCE TO THE INCIDENT AND SAID THAT SHOULD THE WAVE OF POLITICAL VIOLENCE CONTINUE, LEFTIST GROUPS WOULD HAVE TO BE CALLED TO A DIALOGUE TO AVOID OTHER SIMILAR ACTIONS.</p><p>THE "9 MAY" FPL PROCLAMATION WAS ISSUED IN THE NORTHERN CITY OF SAN PEDRO SULA, 255 KM FROM TEGUCIGALPA.</p></body></html>