<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0810"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0810"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0810</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0810 (PRC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 19 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [INTERVIEW WITH FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) COMMANDER ROBERTO ROCA BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [REPORTER] COMMANDER ROBERTO ROCA, THE REPERCUSSIONS OF THE JESUITS' [WORDS INDISTINCT] WERE NOT LONG IN COMING. ONE OF THE MOST SIGNIFICANT ONES WAS THE EDITORIAL OF AN IMPORTANT U.S. NEWSPAPER, THE NEW YORK TIMES, ON 18 NOVEMBER. THE EDITORIAL SAYS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THAT IF PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI DOES NOT ORDER A QUICK, THOROUGH, AND GENUINE INVESTIGATION TO CATCH THE ASSASSINS, HE MIGHT LOSE THE UNITED STATES' ECONOMIC AID.</p><p>THE EDITORIAL ALSO STATES THE DEMOCRATS IN CONGRESS HAVE SAID THAT THE MILITARY AID SHOULD BE SUSPENDED IF EL SALVADOR CANNOT CONTROL AND PUNISH THE DEATH SQUADS. THEY ADD THAT IF HE DOES NOT HEED THE WARNING, THE NEXT STATEMENT MIGHT BE ISSUED BY BOTH PARTIES. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS OF THIS IMPORTANT STATEMENT BY AN INFLUENTIAL U.S. NEWSPAPER FOR CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT AND THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES?</p><p>[ROCA] ACTUALLY, THE NEW YORK TIMES STATES THE FEELING PERVADING THE ENTIRE UNITED STATES. IT IS A WAY OF CONFIRMING THAT THE FASCIST GROUPS PREVAIL WITHIN THE GOVERNMENT AND ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE], AND THEY ARE DECIDING THE REGIME'S POLICIES. POLITICAL OPINION IN THE UNITED STATES HAS UNDOUBTEDLY BEEN SHAKEN BY THIS MASSACRE PLANNED BY ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT.</p><p>WE BELIEVE THAT U.S. POLITICIANS WILL PROGRESSIVELY COME TO SUPPORT THE U.S. PEOPLE'S FEELINGS AND WILL DEMAND THAT CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT ORDER THE INVESTIGATION. WE KNOW THAT THIS WILL NOT BE EASY IN EL SALVADOR, BECAUSE, AS THE EDITORIAL POINTS OUT, SIMILAR ASSASSINATIONS HAVE BEEN PERPETRATED INNUMERABLE TIMES. THESE CASES HAVE BEEN SURROUNDED BY ABSOLUTE SECRECY; NO CULPRITS ARE FOUND; AND WITNESSES HAVE TESTIFIED MANY TIMES THAT THE ACTIONS WERE CARRIED OUT BY ARMED FORCES MEMBERS, EITHER DRESSED AS CIVILIANS OR IN UNIFORM. HOWEVER, THE POLICY OF THE ARMED FORCES AND THE GOVERNMENT PROTECTS THE CULPRITS.</p><p>WE BELIEVE THAT THIS CIVILIAN ASSASSINATION, MEANING THE ASSASSINATION OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS, THE FACT THAT PRACTICALLY ALL THE LEADERS OF THE LABOR MOVEMENT WERE SOUGHT OUT THAT SAME NIGHT TO BE KILLED, PLUS THE FACT THAT THE KILLING OF THE COOPERATIVE MEMBERS WAS CARRIED OUT WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE GREAT BATTLES BEING FOUGHT IN EL SALVADOR'S URBAN AREAS, WILL EVENTUALLY CONVINCE U.S. POLITICIANS THAT THE GOVERNMENT THEY HAVE BEEN SUPPORTING IS CLEARLY A FASCIST GOVERNMENT WHICH HAS ABSOLUTELY NO INTEREST IN ANY KIND OF DEMOCRATIC CONSOLIDATION. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>