<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0267"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0267"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0267</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0267 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>LA PAZ, 29 JUN 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] BOLIVIAN LABOR CONFEDERATION (COB) REPRESENTATIVES REPORTED TODAY THAT THREE STUDENTS HAVE BEEN CHARGED WITH THE KILLING OF TWO U.S. MORMON MISSIONARIES. THE KILLINGS OCCURRED IN LA PAZ ON 24 MAY.</p><p>THE KILLING OF THE TWO U.S. MISSIONARIES WAS CLAIMED BY A SELF- STYLED "ZARATE WILLCA ARMED FORCES LIBERATION" GROUP. THIS IS THE SAME GROUP THAT CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACK ON GEORGE SHULTZ WHEN HE VISITED LA PAZ IN AUGUST 1988 IN HIS CAPACITY AS U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE.</p><p>IN THE LAST FEW DAYS, BOLIVIAN AUTHORITIES HAVE ARRESTED DOZENS OF UNIVERSITY STUDENTS. THEIR RELATIVES AND COB OFFICIALS HAVE CRITICIZED THESE ARRESTS, WHICH THEY CLAIM "ARE AN ILLEGAL AND ARBITRARY ACTION."</p><p>THE COB LEADERS HAVE REPORTED THAT THOSE ARRESTED HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED AS CONSTANTINO YUJRA, A SOCIOLOGY STUDENT; TELMA SALAZAR, A NURSING STUDENT; AND ALBERTO MENDOZA, A STUDENT AT THE WARISATA RURAL SCHOOL.</p><p>MOREOVER, THE SOCIAL SCIENCE SCHOOL OF THE SAN ANDRES UNIVERSITY HAS DECLARED ITSELF IN A "STATE OF EMERGENCY" UNTIL THE STUDENTS ARE RELEASED. THE SCHOOL HAS ALSO CALLED A PROTEST MEETING FOR 30 JUNE.</p><p>MORMON MISSIONARIES JEFFREY BRENT BALL AND RAY TODD WILSON WERE THE MISSIONARIES KILLED. THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAS OFFERED A $500,000-REWARD TO ANYONE WHO HELPS WITH THE CAPTURE OF THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THEIR KILLINGS.</p></body></html>