<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0358"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0358"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0358</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0358 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 20 AUG 89 (EMISORAS CARACOL NETWORK) -- [TEXT] AFTER THE ASSASSINATION OF LIBERAL LEADER LUIS CARLOS GALAN, THE 4,015 JUDGES OF THE COUNTRY DECIDED TO LIFT THE STRIKE THEY HAD CALLED ON 17 AUGUST, FOLLOWING THE ASSASSINATION OF A MAGISTRATE, AND WITHDREW THEIR RESIGNATIONS.</p><p>IT IS NOT THE MOMENT TO GO ON STRIKE OR TO RESIGN, JOSE GABRIEL SALOM, PRESIDENT OF THE SUPREME TRIBUNAL OF BOGOTA, STATED. HE AND 47 COLLEAGUES HAD PRESENTED THEIR RESIGNATION LAST FRIDAY TO PROTEST THE ASSASSINATION OF MAGISTRATE CARLOS VALENCIA GARCIA, PRESUMABLY BY PAID ASSASSINS OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS. VALENCIA GARCIA HAD REJECTED THE APPEALS TO EXONERATE PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA AND GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA, KINGPINS OF THE COCAINE TRAFFICKING GROUP OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, FROM THE CHARGE THAT THEY HAD MASTERMINDED THE ASSASSINATION OF JOURNALIST GUILLERMO CANO, DIRECTOR OF THE NEWSPAPER EL ESPECTADOR, AND JAIME PARDO LEAL, PRESIDENT OF THE OPPOSITION PARTY PATRIOTIC UNION.</p><p>ANTONIO SUAREZ, PRESIDENT OF THE JUDICIAL BRANCH PUBLIC EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION, ANNOUNCED THAT THE STRIKE HAS BEEN CALLED OFF AND THAT NINE JUDGES ARE INVESTIGATING THE ASSASSINATION OF SENATOR GALAN.</p><p>THE JUDICIAL BRANCH WILL RESUME ACTIVITIES ON TUESDAY. THE STRIKE OF THE JUDGES, COMPOUNDED BY THE RESIGNATION OF SOME OF THEM, INTERRUPTED THE CONSIDERATION OF THREE CASES. THE STRIKE WAS ALSO CALLED TO FORCE THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO TO ADOPT MEASURES TO PROTECT THE MAGISTRATES WHOSE LIVES HAVE BEEN THREATENED BY ORGANIZED CRIME.</p><p>AMONG THE EMERGENCY MEASURES ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENT ARE SOME THAT WILL CONTRIBUTE TO HELPING THE JUDICIAL BRANCH TO CONFRONT THE THREAT POSED BY THE DEATH SQUADS OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS.</p></body></html>