<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1226"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1226"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1226</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1226 (BOEING)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 7 APR 90 (FORTIN MAPOCHO) -- [EDITORIAL] [TEXT] THROUGH HIS SPOKESMAN, U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH HAS ANNOUNCED THAT HE WILL VISIT CHILE IN SEPTEMBER. THIS VERY IMPORTANT POLITICAL EVENT DEMONSTRATES THE EXTENT OF THE CHANGE THAT HAS OCCURRED IN THE COUNTRY SINCE THE 14 DECEMBER 1989 ELECTIONS.</p><p>THE ISOLATION HAS BEEN BROKEN AFTER A 16-YEAR PERIOD, AND IMPORTANT WORLD PERSONALITIES ARE BEGINNING TO VISIT US.</p><p>ITALY HAS CONSIDERED CHILE TO BE ONE OF ITS FIRST PRIORITIES FOR ECONOMIC AID AND TRADE. RELATIONS BETWEEN OUR COUNTRY AND BULGARIA WERE RESUMED ON FRIDAY AFTER 16 YEARS OF DICTATORSHIP. PREVIOUSLY, OTHER SOCIALIST COUNTRIES TOOK THE SAME PATH, AND IT WAS ONLY A FEW DAYS AGO THAT THE MEXICAN PRESIDENT VISITED OUR CAPITAL TO CONFIRM THAT LINKS HAD BEEN RESUMED BETWEEN THE TWO NATIONS.</p><p>IN GENERAL PINOCHET'S OPINION, CHILE WAS AT WAR FOR THE 16 YEARS OF THE DICTATORSHIP. CURIOUSLY, THE ALLEGED ALLIED CAMP, THE WESTERN COUNTRIES THROUGH THEIR CHIEFS OF STATE, REFUSED TO TALK WITH HIM OR EXTEND HIM INVITATIONS. FURTHERMORE, IT WAS CONSIDERED DISGRACEFUL TO HAVE ANY LINKS WITH THE REIGNING REGIME THAT HAD VIOLATED EVERY TYPE OF HUMAN RIGHT ACCORDING TO 16 SENTENCES HANDED DOWN BY THE UNITED NATIONS.</p><p>FOR THE UNITED STATES, RELATIONS WITH CHILE WERE ANNOYING AND THAT COUNTRY MADE IT KNOWN. THE DICTATORSHIP'S COMMANDOS TRAVELLED TO WASHINGTON TO KILL ORLANDO LETELIER. FOR THIS OPERATION THEY VIOLATED BORDERS AND LAWS WITH FALSE PASSPORTS TO CONDUCT THIS TERRORIST ACT THAT IS STILL CONSIDERED A BLACK MARK AGAINST CHILEAN JUSTICE.</p><p>NEVER IN THE HISTORY OF CHILEAN-U.S. RELATIONS HAVE THINGS BEEN SO LOW AS DURING THE PAST 16 YEARS.</p><p>ONLY IN LIGHT OF THIS BACKGROUND DATA CAN THE IMPORTANCE OF GEORGE BUSH'S VISIT BE EVALUATED. ALL THIS MARKS THE BEGINNING OF A NEW ERA WITH THE RE-INSTATEMENT OF OUR NATION IN THE PLACE THAT IT HAS ALWAYS HISTORICALLY OCCUPIED, THE RECOVERY OF OUR INFLUENCE, AND THE IMPORTANCE OF THIS COUNTRY'S FUTURE COMMITMENTS.</p><p>BUSH'S VISIT IS THE MOST VISIBLE DEMONSTRATION THAT "THE WARS" HAVE ENDED AND THAT INTERNATIONAL POLICIES ARE TODAY BUILT ON THE BASIS OF UNDERSTANDING AND COOPERATION.</p></body></html>