<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0847"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0847"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TAIPEI (ROC)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0847</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0847 (PRC)</p><p>TAIPEI (ROC), 23 NOV 89 (CNA) -- [TEXT] THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA [ROC] WEDNESDAY EXPRESSED ITS REGRETS OVER THE EL SALVADORAN SITUATION THAT HAS RESULTED FROM MILITARY ATTACKS LAUNCHED BY LEFT-WING GUERRILLAS.</p><p>CHEN YU-CHU, SPOKESMAN FOR THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS [MOFA], SAID THAT WITH THE ASSISTANCE OF SUCH COMMUNIST COUNTRIES AS CUBA AND NICARAGUA, THE LEFT-WING GUERRILLAS HAD LAUNCHED LARGE-SCALE MILITARY ATTACKS ON SAN SALVADOR, THE SALVADORAN CAPITAL, AND OTHER MAJOR CITIES IN AN ATTEMPT TO FORCIBLY SUBVERT THE LEGITIMATE GOVERNMENT. THE ATTACKS KILLED MANY UNARMED CIVILIANS.</p><p>CHEN POINTED OUT THAT THE ATROCITIES COMMITTED BY THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS HAD BEEN STRONGLY CONDEMNED BY PEOPLE ALL OVER THE WORLD.</p><p>"I ALSO REGRET AND CONDEMN THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS' BRUTAL ACTION," THE FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESMAN SAID.</p><p>"WE BELIEVE THAT UNDER THE ABLE LEADERSHIP OF SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO FELEX CRISTIANI, PEACE, SECURITY AND PROSPERITY WILL BE RESTORED SOON IN EL SALVADOR," CHEN SAID.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS DENIED A FOREIGN WIRE REPORT THAT THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA EMBASSY IN SAN SALVADOR HAD BEEN OCCUPIED BY SALVADORAN LEFTIST GUERRILLAS. ALL EMBASSY STAFF MEMBERS ARE SAFE, THE MINISTRY SAID.</p><p>THE AMERICAN CABLE NEWS NETWORK (CNN) REPORTED IN ITS TV NEWS CASTS THAT THE ROC EMBASSY IN SAN SALVADOR HAS BEEN OCCUPIED BY THE GUERRILLAS. THE CNN REPORT CAUSED DEEP CONCERN AT THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, WHICH IMMEDIATELY CABLED ITS OVERSEAS MISSIONS TO TRY TO CONTACT THE ROC EMBASSY IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>THE MIAMI OFFICE OF THE COORDINATION COUNCIL FOR NORTH AMERICAN AFFAIRS WAS FINALLY ABLE TO CONTACT CHINESE AMBASSADOR TO SAN SALVADOR SHEN JEN-PIAO.</p><p>ACCORDING TO AMBASSADOR SHEN'S REPORT, THE ROC EMBASSY IN SAN SALVADOR HAS NOT BEEN OCCUPIED BY THE GUERRILLAS AND ALL STAFF MEMBERS WERE SAFE. HOWEVER, THE AREA AROUND THE EMBASSY, THE AMBASSADORIAL RESIDENCY AND THE STAFF HOUSING AREA HAD BECOME A BATTLE FIELD AND THE ONLY ACCESS TO THE OUTSIDE WAS BY TELEPHONE, MOFA SAID.</p><p>MOFA SAID THAT AMBASSADOR SHEN HAD ORDERED ALL STAFF MEMBERS TO STAY AT HOME AND WAIT FOR FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS.</p></body></html>