<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0518"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0518"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0518</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0518 (UMASS)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 24 SEP 89 (TELEONCE TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] GUATEMALAN FOREIGN MINISTER MARIO PALENCIA WAS ASKED TODAY ABOUT THE CASE OF THE GUATEMALANS WHO TRAVELLED TO SPAIN.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PALENCIA] I HAVE NO INFORMATION, THEY DID NOT [WORD INDISTINCT] THE FOREIGN MINISTRY. I HAVE RECEIVED NO OFFICIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THOSE PEOPLE.</p><p>[REPORTER] DO YOU HAVE ANY OFFICIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE THREE STUDENTS WHO LEFT FOR PANAMA?</p><p>[PALENCIA] NO, I HAVE NOT BEEN INFORMED ABOUT THEM EITHER.</p><p>[REPORTER] DO YOU BELIEVE THEY LEFT THROUGH THE NORMAL CHANNELS?</p><p>[PALENCIA] THE FOREIGN MINISTRY HAS NOT CARRIED OUT ANY SPECIAL PROCEDURE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE DEPARTURE OF TWO STUDENT LEADERS WHO SAID THEY HAD BEEN SUBJECTED TO PERSECUTION AND THREATS CAME LESS THAN 2 WEEKS AFTER THE DEATH OF FOUR UNIVERSITY STUDENTS WHO HAD BEEN KIDNAPPED, AND COINCIDED WITH THE PRESENCE IN GUATEMALA OF UN OBSERVER PETER KOOIJMANS, A SPECIALIST IN TORTURE ANALYSIS, WHO MAY REMAIN IN THE COUNTRY FOR 6 DAYS.</p><p>FOREIGN MINISTER MARIO PALENCIA ADMITTED THAT THE ESCALATION OF VIOLENCE IN GUATEMALA OVER THE PAST FEW WEEKS, RELATED SITUATIONS SUCH AS THE FLIGHT OF GUATEMALANS TO OTHER COUNTRIES, AND THE REESTABLISHMENT OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT TRAVEL ADVISORY, HAVE AFFECTED GUATEMALA'S INTERNATIONAL IMAGE.</p><p>NEVERTHELESS, THE FOREIGN MINISTER SAID THAT THE CIRCUMSTANCES THAT LED TO THE ATMOSPHERE OF UNREST IN THE COUNTRY HAVE NORMALIZED SOMEWHAT.</p></body></html>