<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1044"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1044"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="PANAMA CITY (PANAMA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1044</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1044 (TRW)</p><p>PANAMA CITY (PANAMA), 13 JAN 90 (LA PRENSA) -- [ARTICLE] [MANOLO ALVAREZ CEDENO] [TEXT] SOME 150 PERSONS PICKETED AND THREW STONES AT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY ON 12 JANUARY. THE DEMONSTRATORS DEMANDED THAT FORMER PANAMA DEFENSE FORCES [FDP] MAJOR EDGARDO LOPEZ GRIMALDO, AND OTHERS CLOSELY LINKED TO THE FORMER MILITARY REGIME WHO SOUGHT REFUGE AT THE EMBASSY, BE ASKED TO LEAVE THE MISSION.</p><p>THE DEMONSTRATORS SHOUTED SLOGANS AGAINST NORIEGA AND THREW SOME STONES. THEY BROKE THE REAR WINDSHIELDS OF TWO DIPLOMATIC VEHICLES PARKED IN FRONT OF THE EMBASSY: A WHITE MITSUBISHI, LICENSE PLATES CD-325, AND A RED MITSUBISHI, LICENSE PLATES CD-142.</p><p>"GRIMALDO...COWARD KILLER, COME OUT AND SHOW YOUR FACE," THE CROWD SHOUTED WHILE THE U.S. SOLDIERS GUARDING THE MISSION GENTLY MOVED THEM IN THE DIRECTION OF THE SIDEWALK ACROSS THE STREET. SOME EIGHT MEMBERS OF THE NEW PANAMANIAN PUBLIC FORCE, ALSO GUARDING THE EMBASSY, DID NOT INTERVENE.</p><p>DESPITE THE SHOUTS DEMANDING "JUSTICE AND PRISON" FOR NORIEGA'S FOLLOWERS, NO ONE CAME OUT OF THE EMBASSY LOCATED ON "F" STREET, EL CANGREJO, A MIDDLE-CLASS NEIGHBORHOOD IN PANAMA CITY.</p><p>MAJOR GONZALO GONZALEZ, COMMANDER OF THE ELITE "MACHO DE MONTE" COMPANY THAT FOILED THE 3 OCTOBER COUP AGAINST NORIEGA; HERACLIDES SUCRE, WHO HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED AS ONE OF THE TWO OFFICERS WHO "SHOT" MOISES GIROLDI; AND MARCELA TASON, NORIEGA'S PERSONAL SECRETARY ARE ALSO AT THE EMBASSY WITH LOPEZ GRIMALDO, WHO WAS THE SPOKESMAN FOR THE DISMANTLED FDP.</p><p>APPROXIMATELY 40 U.S. SOLDIERS, SUPPORTED BY AN ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIER AND THREE "HUMMER" ARMORED VEHICLES, ARE GUARDING THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY.</p><p>AT THE TIME OF THE DEMOSTRATIONS, RESIDENTS IN NEARBY BUILDINGS WAVED WHITE HANDERCHIEFS AND BANGED POTS AND PANS, AND EMPTY CANS. A SIMILAR SITUATION WAS OCCURRING ON THE STREET.</p><p>ONE OF THE DEMONSTRATORS TOLD LA PRENSA: "WE WILL STAY HERE UNTIL THEY COME OUT BECAUSE THEY MUST PAY FOR THEIR CRIMES; WE WILL COME BACK HERE EVERY AFTERNOON."</p><p>THE U.S. SOLDIERS CORDONED OFF THE AREA WITH CONCERTINA WIRE WHILE A GROUP OF PEOPLE "BOOED" THEM FOR DOING THIS.</p></body></html>