<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1253"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1253"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1253</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1253 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 25 APR 90 (EL DIARIO DE HOY) -- [TEXT] THE HIGH COMMAND OF THE ARMED FORCES IS ANALYZING NEWS REPORTS ABOUT COLONEL SIGIFREDO OCHOA PEREZ, PRESIDENT OF AN AUTONOMOUS INSTITUTION, HAVING SAID THAT THE OFFICER INVOLVED IN THE DEATH OF SIX JESUITS AND THEIR TWO MAIDS "FOLLOWED ORDERS FROM ABOVE".</p><p>OCHOA MADE THOSE COMMENTS ON A U.S. TELEVISION NEWSCAST AT A TIME WHEN SEVERAL MEMBERS OF [THE U.S.] CONGRESS WANT TO CUT AID TO EL SALVADOR AND ARE CONDUCTING THEIR OWN INVESTIGATIONS OF THE CASE. THE RESULTS OF THEIR INVESTIGATION WILL BE KNOWN NEXT WEEK.</p><p>DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL RAFAEL HUMBERTO LARIOS CONFIRMED ON THE MORNING OF 24 APRIL THAT THE HIGH COMMAND IS ANALYZING OCHOA'S DECLARATIONS AND STRESSED THAT VERSIONS SUCH AS THE ONE ATTRIBUTED TO THE OFFICIAL USUALLY COME FROM "INTERESTED PARTIES."</p><p>LARIOS, QUESTIONED WHEN HE BID FAREWELL TO PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI, WHO LEFT FOR NICARAGUA ON 24 APRIL, SAID THAT "THE CASE IS IN THE COURTS AND ALL THOSE WHO HAVE NEW EVIDENCE MAY APPROACH THEM TO CONTRIBUTE WHAT THEY HAVE SO THAT IT MAY BE SOLVED."</p><p>"BOTH THE ARMY AND THE GOVERNMENT WANT EVERYTHING TO BE CLARIFIED WITHIN A FAIR AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK," HE SAID.</p><p>ARMY OFFICERS WHO ASKED TO REMAIN ANONYMOUS SAID ON 24 APRIL THAT "THE COMMENTS MADE BY OCHOA, CONTROVERSIAL POLITICIAN AND SOLDIER KNOWN FOR HIS FREQUENT OUTBURSTS, HAVE NO BASIS BECAUSE HE HAS NO ACCESS TO CONFIDENTIAL ARMED FORCES SOURCES DUE TO HIS RETIRED STATUS."</p><p>HOWEVER, THE INFORMERS HAVE SAID THAT "WHAT OCHOA SAID NOT ONLY DAMAGES THE ARMY'S IMAGE, BUT THAT OF THE ENTIRE COUNTRY WHILE IT CONTRIBUTES TO THE DEFAMATION CAMPAIGN BEING CARRIED OUT ABROAD BY INTERESTED PARTIES, AMONG THEM, THE LEADERS OF THE FMLN-FDR [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT-REVOLUTIONARY DEMOCRATIC FRONT]."</p><p>THEY ADDED THAT OCHOA'S DECLARATION, "MADE WITHOUT PRESENTING ANY PROOF, ENDANGERS THE MILITARY AID THAT THE UNITED STATES OFFERS TO EL SALVADOR AND, AT THE SAME TIME, FAVORS THE INTERNATIONALIST LEFT WHICH INTENDS TO PLAY THE LAST CARD IT HAS TO ASSAULT POWER IN THIS COUNTRY."</p><p>THE POLITICIANS' IMMEDIATE REACTION TO OCHOA PEREZ' COMMENTS WAS TO DEMAND THAT HE BE MORE SPECIFIC IN HIS ACCUSATION. PDC [CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY] LEADER EDUARDO COLINDRES SAID IN A PRESS CONFERENCE THAT "OCHOA PEREZ HAS THE MORAL OBLIGATION OF NAMING" THOSE OF HIS COMRADES-IN-ARMS HE IMPLICATES IN THE DEATH OF THE JESUITS, SINCE THE VERSION HE GAVE TO THE TELEVISION PROGRAM THAT INTERVIEWED HIM IS VAGUE.</p><p>THE POLITICIAN SAID: "IF HE KNOWS SOMETHING, IT IS TIME THAT HE BRING IT OUT INTO A PUBLIC LIGHT SO THAT JUSTICE AUTHORITIES MAY TAKE THE APPROPRIATE PATHS."</p><p>MEANWHILE, IN MANAGUA, SPANISH GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS WHO ATTENDED VIOLETA CHAMORRO'S INAUGURATION SAID THAT THEY WERE DISAPPOINTED BY THE SLUGGISH MANNER IN WHICH THE INVESTIGATIONS OF THE JESUITS' CASE ARE APPARENTLY BEING CARRIED OUT. THEY SAID THAT THEY MIGHT MENTION THE TOPIC DURING THE MEETINGS THEY WILL HOLD WITH PRESIDENT CRISTIANI IN NICARAGUA.</p><p>REPORTS FROM WASHINGTON D.C. QUOTE THE LEFTIST LEADER OF THE FDR, GUILLERMO MANUEL UNGO, AS SAYING THAT "HIS EFFORTS IN THE AMERICAN CAPITAL TO EXPOSE THE SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR, ARE A SUCCESS."</p><p>THE SOURCES SAID THAT UNGO AND HIS MARXIST-LENINIST ALLIES WANT THE U.S. SENATE TO STOP GIVING MILITARY AID TO EL SALVADOR. THE SOURCES ALSO SAID THAT UNGO DISCREDITS THE ARMY AND THE GOVERNMENT AND FAVORS THE LEGAL RECOGNITION OF THE REBEL GROUPS OPERATING IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>"EVERYTHING SEEMS TO INDICATE THAT THE LEFTIST INTERNATIONALISTS HAVE UNLEASHED A NEW DISINFORMATION OFFENSIVE AGAINST EL SALVADOR WITH THE AID OF BAD SALVADORANS," THE SOURCES SAID.</p><p>REFERRING TO OTHER COMMUNIST MOVES IN THE COUNTRY, GENERAL LARIOS SAID THAT THE LOCAL LEFTISTS ARE PREPARING TO STAGE TERRORIST ACTIONS AND STREET DISTURBANCES OVER THE NEXT FEW DAYS UNDER THE PRETEXT OF COMMEMORATING LABOR DAY.</p><p>LARIOS URGED THE FMLN-FDR TERRORISTS TO REFRAIN FROM PERPETRATING VIOLENT ACTIONS, THUS CREATING AN ADEQUATE CLIMATE FOR THE "DIALOGUE" ANNOUNCED BY THE GOVERNMENT TO BE HELD ON 3 MAY. "OTHERWISE, THE TERRORISTS WOULD BE VIOLATING THE COMMITMENTS THEY MADE," LARIOS POINTED OUT.</p><p>IN ADDITION, IT HAS BEEN REPORTED FROM COSTA RICA THAT FMLN-FDR LEADERS HAVE SAID THAT THEY HAVE PREPARED ANOTHER OFFENSIVE FOR THE NEXT FEW DAYS. THIS ANNOUNCEMENT HAS ELICITED STRONG REJECTION BY VARIOUS SECTORS.</p></body></html>