<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0070"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0070"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0070</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0070 (NOSC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 11 MAR 89 (AFP) -- [REPORT] [AFP SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT ARTURO GUDINO] [TEXT] ALFREDO CRISTIANI, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE OF THE SALVADORAN NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA), WARNED TODAY THAT HE IS NOT WILLING TO NEGOTIATE WITH THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) IF HE WINS THE UPCOMING 19 MARCH PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS.</p><p>CRISTIANI SAID: "WE ARE WILLING TO TALK BUT NOT TO NEGOTIATE ANY PLATFORM." CRISTIANI WARNED THAT IF THE REBELS DO NOT LAY DOWN THEIR WEAPONS AND JOIN THE COUNTRY'S POLITICAL LIFE, "THE BEST THING FOR THEM TO DO IS TO LEAVE FOR NICARAGUA OR CUBA."</p><p>AS SOMEONE WHO IS CONSIDERED CERTAIN TO BECOME THE NEXT SALVADORAN PRESIDENT, CRISTIANI RECEIVED AN OVATION FROM A CHEERING CROWD THAT GATHERED AT LA LIBERTAD SQUARE IN SAN SALVADOR, WHERE ARENA HELD ITS LAST MAJOR DEMONSTRATION IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>CRISTIANI ADDED: "WE WILL NEVER LET THEM ATTAIN POWER BY MEANS OF RIFLES."</p><p>THE ARENA CANDIDATE, WHO IS FAVORED TO WIN THE SALVADORAN PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS, ASSERTED THAT ONCE HE ATTAINS POWER, HE WILL GIVE FULL SUPPORT TO THE ARMY AND THE SECURITY FORCES "SO THEY CAN PUT AN END TO THE VIOLENCE IN THE COUNTRY."</p><p>CRISTIANI, A WEALTHY BUSINESSMAN, ALSO ANNOUNCED THAT IF HE WINS THE ELECTIONS HE WILL PUT AN END TO THE NATIONALIZATION OF THE BANKING SECTOR AND FOREIGN TRADE ACTIVITIES, THE MAIN PILLARS OF A PLAN WHOSE IMPLEMENTATION BEGAN AFTER THE COUNTRY'S 1979 COUP D'ETAT. PRESIDENT DUARTE KEPT THIS PLAN ALIVE AND THE AGRARIAN REFORM PROGRAM INTACT DURING HIS PRESIDENTIAL TERM.</p><p>"WE WILL DO AWAY WITH INCAFE (NATIONAL COFFEE INSTITUTE), WHICH HAS STOLEN JOBS FROM HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SALVADORAN PRODUCERS," THE ARENA LEADER SAID, ADDING: "WE DO NOT WANT A BANKING OR A BUSINESS GOVERNMENT."</p><p>CRISTIANI, HOWEVER, DID NOT MENTION THE CURRENT AGRARIAN REFORM, THROUGH WHICH YOUNG MILITARY MEN WHO LED THE 1979 COUP D'ETAT INTENDED TO BREAK THE BACK OF THE OLIGARCHY.</p><p>THOUSANDS OF SALVADORANS, MOSTLY FROM THE UPPER AND MIDDLE CLASSES, MARCHED ALONG THE MAIN SAN SALVADOR STREETS TODAY TO LA LIBERTAD SQUARE, WHICH WAS FILLED WITH ARENA POSTERS AND RED, WHITE, AND BLUE ARENA FLAGS.</p><p>ARENA'S CRISTIANI SAID: "WE WILL ELIMINATE THE UNEMPLOYMENT PROBLEM. WE WILL BUILD ROADS AND INCREASE PRODUCTION. WE WILL PROVIDE THE MOST NEEDY WITH HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND ALL OTHER SERVICES."</p><p>MEANWHILE, THOUSANDS OF YOUTHS CHEERED FOR CRISTIANI AND DANCED IN LA LIBERTAD SQUARE TO SONGS RIDICULING ARENA'S MAIN OPPOSITION IN THE ELECTIONS, THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY [PDC], WHICH IS CURRENTLY IN POWER.</p><p>ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON, ARENA FOUNDER AND FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE, DENOUNCED THE UNITED STATES, WHICH HE ACCUSED OF SPONSORING THE PDC.</p><p>D'AUBUISSON, WHOM THE PDC HAS ACCUSED OF BEING THE "BRAINS BEHIND" THE MARCH 1980 ASSASSINATION OF MSGR OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO, SAID: "WHETHER THE WHITE BLONDS [CHELES] LIKE IT OR NOT, WE WILL WIN THE ELECTIONS 10 YEARS AFTER THE 1979 FATAL COUP D'ETAT."</p><p>D'AUBUISSON HARSHLY ATTACKED PRESIDENT DUARTE, WHO IS SUFFERING FROM TERMINAL CANCER, AND REFERRED TO HIM AS "THE CRAZY AND WORN OUT DUARTE."</p><p>CRISTIANI IS WILLING TO TALK WITH THE FMLN, BUT ONLY WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE CONSTITUTION AND THE LAW. D'AUBUISSON SAID: "WE WILL GIVE THEM TIME TO JOIN THE COUNTRY'S DEMOCRATIC LIFE, LITTLE BY LITTLE."</p><p>ARENA'S MEETING, WHICH ACCORDING TO ITS ORGANIZERS DREW A CROWD OF 40,000 SUPPORTERS, ENDED WITHOUT INCIDENT TONIGHT.</p></body></html>