<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0497"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0497"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAVANA (CUBA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0497</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0497 (UMASS)</p><p>HAVANA (CUBA), 16 SEP 89 (INTERNATIONAL SERVICE) -- [COMMENTARY] [MANOLO ORTEGA] [TEXT] FOR THE FIRST TIME IN VIRTUALLY 10 YEARS OF ARMED CONFLICT, WHICH HAS CLAIMED ALMOST 70,000 LIVES, THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND GUERRILLAS SIGNED AN AGREEMENT RECENTLY IN MEXICO CITY. THIS COULD MARK THE BEGINNING OF AN UNPRECEDENTED PATH OF PEACE FOR THAT CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRY.</p><p>AFTER 2 DAYS OF TALKS, FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] REPRESENTATIVES AND SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT DELEGATES AGREED TO ESTABLISH A PERMANENT DIALOGUE TO SECURE A DEFINITE CEASE-FIRE. ON 16 AND 17 OCTOBER, THE COSTA RICAN CAPITAL WILL HOST THE MEETING BETWEEN THE NEGOTIATING PARTIES. THE EVENT WILL BE ATTENDED BY TWO REPRESENTATIVES OF THE CATHOLIC CHURCH AS MEDIATORS FOR THE SALVADORAN EPISCOPAL CONFERENCE. UN AND OAS REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE INVITED TO ATTEND AS WITNESSES.</p><p>ASIDE FROM MATTERS OF PROCEDURE, IT IS WORTHWHILE TO SAY THAT, IN ADDITION TO BEING DECISIVE IN ACHIEVING A SOLUTION TO THE SALVADORAN INTERNAL CRISIS, THE REBELS' RECENT PEACE INITIATIVE WAS A STRONG BLOW TO THE RULING ULTRA-RIGHTIST SECTOR. THE REBELS' WILLINGNESS TO END HOSTILITIES AND TURN THE FMLN INTO A POLITICAL PARTY PLACED BEFORE PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI THE DECISION OF CONTINUING THE WAR OR OPTING FOR PEACE.</p><p>AS OF THAT MOMENT, AND IN VIEW OF THE IMPORTANCE ASSIGNED TO THE TALKS BY THE INTERNATIONAL MEDIA AND ANALYSTS, INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC OPINION KEPT ABREAST OF THE DIALOGUE, WHICH IS SO VITAL FOR EL SALVADOR AND FOR CENTRAL AMERICA. FOR THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE [ARENA], THE PROPOSALS WERE CLEARLY DEFINED TO AGREE ON A TOTAL CEASE-FIRE BEFORE 31 JANUARY, TO END THE REPRESSION, TO CONDUCT A PURGE IN THE ARMY, AND TO REORGANIZE THE JUDICIAL AND ELECTORAL SYSTEM.</p><p>ALTHOUGH DETAILS WERE NOT GIVEN ON HOW THE ISSUES WILL BE HANDLED, THE FACT REMAINS THAT DISCUSSIONS BETWEEN THE TWO PARTIES WILL BEGIN IN ONLY A MONTH. IT MEANS THAT THE VEILED GOVERNMENT INTENTION TO DELAY THE TALKS AND CONTINUE THE WAR, WHICH IT CANNOT WIN IN ANY EVENT, HAS FAILED. WE MIGHT EVEN ADD THAT THE ARENA GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN ON THE DEFENSIVE FROM THE BEGINNING, ESPECIALLY FOLLOWING THE TELA SUMMIT WHICH APPEALED TO THE SALVADORAN AUTHORITIES TO HOLD DIALOGUE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE WITH THE REBELS. PRESIDENT CRISTIANI'S ATTEMPT TO SECURE THE FORCEFUL DEMOBILIZATION OF THE GUERRILLAS AND HIS ATTEMPT TO COMPARE THESE FORCES WITH THE NICARAGUAN COUNTERREVOLUTIONARIES ALSO FAILED.</p><p>THE SERIOUSNESS OF THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT'S POSITION AND ITS WILLINGNESS TO SECURE A DEFINITIVE PEACE AGREEMENT WILL BE IN EVIDENCE AT THE NEXT MEETINGS. MEANWHILE, THE PROSPECTS FOR ACHIEVING PEACE IN THE COUNTRY APPEAR TO BE FAVORABLE.</p></body></html>