<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0632"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0632"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0632</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0632 (GE)</p><p>LIMA, 1 NOV 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT TODAY TURNED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE INTERNAL ORDER IN LIMA OVER TO THE ARMED FORCES, 2 DAYS BEFORE AN "ARMED STRIKE" DECLARED BY THE MAOIST SHINING PATH TERRORIST GROUP GOES INTO EFFECT.</p><p>ACCORDING TO AN OFFICIAL REPORT, THE MILITARIZATION OF LIMA WAS DECLARED AT THE SAME TIME A GROUP OF 100 HOODED SHINING PATH ACTIVITS STAGED A DEMONSTRATION, ENGAGED IN A SHOOT-OUT, AND HURLED EXPLOSIVES AT THE POLICE IN LA VICTORIA DISTRICT.</p><p>INTERIOR MINISTER AGUSTIN MATILLA REPORTED THAT 2 PEOPLE DIED AND 15 OTHERS WERE WOUNDED IN THE THE CLASH, WHICH PLACE WHILE A RELIGIOUS GROUP WAS CARRYING OUT A PEACEFUL MARCH.</p><p>ACCORDING TO A DECREE, THE ARMED FORCES WILL TAKE CONTROL OF LIMA DEPARTMENT AND EL CALLAO PROVINCE, NEXT TO THE CAPITAL, WHERE A STATE OF EMERGENCY IS IN FORCE.</p><p>ON 23 OCTOBER, THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT EXTENDED FOR 1 MONTH THE STATE OF EMERGENCY IN LIMA DUE TO AN OUTBURST OF THE POLITICAL VIOLENCE THAT HAS RESULTED IN MORE THAN 350 DEATHS NATIONWIDE LAST MONTH.</p><p>DESPITE THE STATE OF EMERGENCY, WHICH SUSPENDS IMPORTANT CONSTITUTIONAL GUARANTEES, UNTIL TODAY INTERNAL ORDER WAS THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE NATIONAL POLICE.</p><p>PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA TODAY TOLD THE MEDIA THAT THE POLICE ARRESTED 149 PEOPLE, OF WHOM ABOUT 100 ARE ALLEGED SHINING PATH MEMBERS, DURING TODAY'S RIOTS.</p><p>THE PERUVIAN CHIEF OF STATE SAID THAT THE RIOTS WERE MEANT "TO HINDER" THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS SCHEDULED FOR 12 NOVEMBER. HE ADDED THAT HIS ADMINISTRATION WILL EXERT "ALL THE NECESSARY ENERGY TO COMBAT SUBVERSION."</p><p>THE SHINING PATH MEMBERS TODAY DEMONSTRATED WITH SHOUTS FAVORING THE "ARMED STRUGGLE," AND THEY HANDED OUT LEAFLETS CALLING ON THE PEOPLE TO ENGAGE IN AN "ARMED STRIKE" ON 3 NOVEMBER.</p><p>THE SHINING PATH, WHICH HAS BEEN ENGAGING IN WARFARE FOR THE PAST 10 YEARS, INTENDS TO PARALYZE LIMA WITH THE "ARMED STRIKE" -- A GENERAL STRIKE UNDER ARMED COERCION -- ONLY 9 DAYS BEFORE THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.</p><p>THE "SHINING PATH" HAS ALSO ANNOUNCED IT INTENDS TO BOYCOTT THE ELECTIONS [PASSAGE INDISTINCT] LEADER OF THE ORGANIZATION, ABIMAEL GUZMAN.</p><p>THE MAIN PERUVIAN POLITICAL PARTIES, THE CHURCH, AND LABOR AND PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS HAVE CALLED, FOR THE SAME DAY, A DEMONSTRATION IN FAVOR OF PEACE AND IN DEFENSE OF DEMOCRACY, WHICH IS CONSIDERED TO BE THREATENED BY TERRORISM.</p><p>THE "SHINING PATH" HAS INTENSIFIED ITS ARMED ACTIVITIES NATIONWIDE DUE TO THE 12 NOVEMBER MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS. AS A RESULT, HUNDREDS OF CANDIDATES HAVE WITHDRAWN FROM THE RACE.</p><p>IN ITS PROCLAMATIONS, THE "SHINING PATH" THREATENED "TO ANNIHILATE, SOONER OF LATER" ALL CANDIDATES WHO RUN IN THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS. THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS ARE BEING HELD JUST 6 MONTHS BEFORE THE PRESIDENTIAL AND CONGRESSIONAL ELECTIONS, WHICH ARE SCHEDULED FOR 8 APRIL 1990.</p></body></html>