<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0911"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0911"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0911</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0911 (GTE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 30 NOV 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES STATED THIS EVENING THAT THE GUERRILLA OFFENSIVE "HAS FAILED AND HAS NOT REPRESENTED A MILITARY THREAT" TO THE ARMY FOLLOWING 19 DAYS OF STRONG REBEL ATTACKS IN THE FRAMEWORK OF 10 YEARS OF WAR.</p><p>ARMY SPOKESMAN MAJOR MAURICIO CHAVEZ CACERES SAID THAT "FOLLOWING THE FAILURE OF THE GUERRILLA OFFENSIVE WHICH HAD BEEN PREPARED FOR OVER A YEAR, WHAT WE CAN EXPECT FROM THEM (THE REBELS) IS ATTACKS ON PROMINENT PEOPLE AND ON THE ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE, AND ACTIONS TO SCARE THE POPULATION."</p><p>THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] RENEWED ITS ATTACKS EARLY ON 29 NOVEMBER WHEN IT ATTACKED THE COUNTRY'S MOST IMPORTANT MILITARY INSTALLATION AND SET FIRE TO A RESIDENCE OF U.S. MILITARY ADVISERS AND CONFRONTED THE ARMY IN EXCLUSIVE NEIGHBORHOODS IN NORTHWEST SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>FORMER FOREIGN MINISTER AND PRESIDENT OF THE SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE FRANCISCO JOSE GUERRERO DIED ON 28 NOVEMBER WHEN HE WAS STRAFFED BY GUERRILLAS, ACCORDING TO MILITARY SOURCES. THIS TOOK PLACE HOURS BEFORE THE RENEWED FIGHTING WHICH PRODUCED 40 CASUALTIES AMONG GUERRILLAS AND SOLDIERS.</p><p>IN AN OFFICIAL RADIO AND TELEVISION BROADCAST, CHAVEZ CACERES TODAY ACCUSED THE FMLN OF DESTROYING SOME RESIDENCES IN THE EXCLUSIVE ESCALON NEIGHBORHOOD WITH DYNAMITE, IN NORTHWEST SAN SALVADOR, AND OF FIRING ON PRIVATE VEHICLES IN HIGH- AND MIDDLE-CLASS SAN SALVADOR NEIGHBORHOODS.</p><p>THE MILITARY SPOKESMAN SAID: "THEY (THE REBELS) HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO DEAL A MILITARY BLOW; THEY HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO PUT UP A FIGHT WITH A SINGLE ARMY BATTALION OR COMPANY."</p><p>THE FMLN GUERRILLAS TODAY VACATED THE ESCALON NEIGHBORHOOD AFTER HOLDING, FOR OVER 24 HOURS, SEVERAL HOUSES THERE, FROM WHICH THEY CONFRONTED THE GOVERNMENT TROOPS.</p><p>THE FMLN ANNOUNCED A TRUCE FROM 0600 TO 1200 (1200 TO 1800 GMT) TODAY TO EVACUATE FOREIGNERS, DIPLOMATS, AND CIVILIAN RESIDENTS FROM ESCALON.</p><p>OVER 200 U.S. CITIZENS LEFT TODAY FOR THE UNITED STATES BECAUSE OF THE FIGHTING, PARTICULARLY IN ESCALON, A RESIDENTIAL AREA IN WHICH DIPLOMATS, HIGH-RANKING GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, AND POWERFUL BUSINESSMEN LIVE.</p><p>SINCE THE BEGINNING OF THE GUERRILLA OFFENSIVE ON 11 NOVEMBER, APPROXIMATELY 2,000 PEOPLE HAVE DIED AND HUNDREDS HAVE BEEN WOUNDED IN THE FIGHTING BETWEEN SOLDIERS AND REBELS, WHICH HAS ALSO RESULTED IN SEVERE ECONOMIC LOSSES.</p></body></html>