<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0330"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0330"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0330</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0330 (BBN)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 7 AUG 89 (RADIO AMERICA) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ORTEGA BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [ORTEGA] I BELIEVE THAT PRESIDENT BUSH WILL HAVE TO ACCEPT REALITY, WHICH IS THAT THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS, THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PEOPLES ARE TIRED OF WAR; THEY WANT PEACE. WE CENTRAL AMERICANS ARE THE ONES WHO ARE BEING KILLED, NOT THE U.S. SOLDIERS. THE UNITED STATES HAS THE DUTY TO RESPECT DECISIONS MADE BY THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PEOPLES AND GOVERNMENTS.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT ARE THE REAL BASES OF THE AGREEMENT REACHED WITH THE NICARAGUAN OPPOSITION?</p><p>[ORTEGA] IT IS A DOCUMENT THAT WAS SIGNED BY ALL POLITICAL PARTIES. OBVIOUSLY, I SIGNED IT MYSELF. THE MAIN POINT IN THE DOCUMENT IS THAT WE PROPOSE THE DISMANTLING OF THE CONTRAS. THAT WAS THE FIRST ISSUE WE DISCUSSED. THE DOCUMENT NOTES THAT ONCE THE CONTRAS ARE DISMANTLED, THERE WILL BE AN AMNESTY, AND PRISONERS REMAINING IN NICARAGUA WILL BE RELEASED. WE ALSO STRESSED THAT FOREIGN FORCES SHOULD NOT MEDDLE IN THE NICARAGUAN ELECTION PROCESS; THE CIA, FOR EXAMPLE, HAS BEEN AUTHORIZED TO MEDDLE IN THE NICARAGUAN ELECTION PROCESS; THIS WAS DISCUSSED AT THE U.S. CONGRESS. THEREFORE, WE ARE AGAINST THIS KIND OF ACTIVITY, WHICH SHOWS DISRESPECT FOR NICARAGUAN SOVEREIGNTY.</p><p>[REPORTER] [WORDS INDISTINCT] CONCERNING [WORDS INDISTINCT]. HOWEVER, IS IT NOT ALSO NECESSARY TO HOLD TALKS WITH THE CONTRAS?</p><p>[ORTEGA] WHAT DID YOU SAY? THAT WE MUST TALK TO THE CONTRAS?</p><p>[REPORTER] [WORDS INDISTINCT] IT IS ALSO NECESSARY TO TALK TO THE CONTRAS?</p><p>[ORTEGA] WELL, WE WILL HAVE TO HOLD TALKS WITH THE CONTRAS TO FIND OUT HOW THEY CAN BE DISLODGED [FROM HONDURAS] AND RETURN TO NICARAGUA; OR WE MUST DISCUSS WHETHER THEY WANT TO STAY HERE IN HONDURAS -- BECAUSE SOME MAY WANT TO STAY IN HONDURAS AND OTHERS MAY WANT TO GO ELSEWHERE, SUCH AS TO THE UNITED STATES. I BELIEVE THAT THE UNITED STATES SHOULD TAKE CARE OF THOSE WHO DO NOT WANT TO STAY IN CENTRAL AMERICA, BECAUSE THE UNITED STATES PROMOTED THE CONTRAS. THE UNITED STATES SHOULD NOT PLACE THIS BURDEN ON HONDURAS OR ON THE OTHER CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES. THEREFORE, WE WILL HAVE TO HOLD TALKS WITH THE CONTRAS TO GET THEM OUT OF HERE, TO GET THEM OUT OF HERE IN AN ORDERLY MANNER AND NOT BY SHOOTING AT THEM.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR PRESIDENT, THE CONTRAS ARE DEMANDING GUARANTEES.</p><p>[ORTEGA] GUARANTEES ALREADY EXIST IN NICARAGUA.</p><p>[REPORTER] COMMANDER ORTEGA, DO YOU HELP THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN]?</p><p>[ORTEGA] WHAT?</p><p>[REPORTER] DO YOU PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO THE FMLN?</p><p>[ORTEGA] WE ARE IN FAVOR OF A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION.</p><p>[REPORTER] [WORDS INDISTINCT] SAID IT HAS EVIDENCE THAT NICARAGUA PROVIDES ASSISTANCE TO THE FMLN. THIS WAS SAID YESTERDAY BY NICARAGUAN FOREIGN MINISTER MIGUEL D'ESCOTO.</p><p>[ANNOUNCER] THE STATEMENTS BY COMMANDER DANIEL ORTEGA HAVE BEEN INTERRUPTED BECAUSE THE PLANE THAT BROUGHT HIM TO THE AIRPORT IS ABOUT TO TAKE OFF FROM THE TELA AIRPORT. AT THIS TIME, THE HONDURAN FOREIGN MINISTER IS ASKING MR ORTEGA TO GO TO [WORDS INDISTINCT]. THE FOREIGN MINISTER IS TRYING TO CONVINCE ORTEGA TO STOP MAKING STATEMENTS, BUT MR ORTEGA SEEMS VERY WILLING TO CONTINUE TO MAKE STATEMENTS TO THE PRESS. AT THIS MOMENT, PRESIDENT ORTEGA CANNOT ANSWER THE QUESTIONS BEING POSED BY LOCAL AND FOREIGN NEWSMEN BECAUSE THE PLANE IS TAKING OFF.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR ORTEGA...</p><p>[ORTEGA] INTERRUPTING CONCERNING YOUR QUESTION A FEW MINUTES AGO REGARDING THE FMLN. I JUST HELD A MEETING; I JUST HELD A MEETING WITH THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND. THEY ARE TOURING THE AREA, AND I HAVE MET THEM. THEY GAVE ME A LETTER ADDRESSED TO THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS EXPRESSING THEIR WILLINGNESS TO BEGIN A DIALOGUE WITH THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT, USING AS A BASIS THE DIALOGUE THAT THE FMLN HAS HELD WITH THE POLITICAL AND SOCIAL FORCES IN EL SALVADOR. THE FLMN RECENTLY MET WITH THE LEGALLY REGISTERED POLITICAL PARTIES IN EL SALVADOR. THE FMLN HAS MET WITH SOCIAL GROUPS, AND, AFTER THESE TALKS, THEY MADE A SPECIFIC PROPOSAL: TO BEGIN A DIALOGUE TO REACH A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION TO THE CONFLICT THAT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ARE ENDURING. OUR DESIRE IS TO SUPPORT A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION -- AS ESTABLISHED IN THE ESQUIPULAS AGREEMENTS - - TO FIND A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION TO THIS KIND OF CENTRAL AMERICAN CONFLICT. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>