<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1287"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1287"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEL AVIV (ISRAEL)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1287</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1287 (BOEING)</p><p>TEL AVIV (ISRAEL), 17 MAY 90 (HADASHOT) -- [INTERVIEW WITH GUATEMALAN FOREIGN MINISTER ARIEL IRIAS RIVERA BY SHLOMO SLUTZKY] [TEXT] WHEN HE BEGAN HIS JOB AS GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT AFTER DECADES OF MILITARY REGIMES THAT LEFT BEHIND 100,000 FATALITIES, CHRISTIAN DEMOCRAT MARCO VINICIO AREVALO CEREZO HAD PROMISES FOR THE FUTURE AND THINGS TO HIS CREDIT IN THE PAST. THE THINGS TO HIS CREDIT WERE FOUR ASSASSINATION ATTEMPTS ON HIM BECAUSE OF HIS ATTEMPTS TO RESTORE DEMOCRACY IN HIS COUNTRY, AND HIS PROMISES WERE TO STOP POLITICAL VIOLENCE, CORRUPTION, AND MAINLY THE ACTIVITIES OF THE EXTREME RIGHT-WING DEATH SQUADS.</p><p>CEREZO HAS BEEN IN THIS POST FOR FIVE YEARS. NEW ELECTIONS ARE TO BE HELD SOON, AND THE ACTIVITIES OF THE DEATH SQUADS, SUPPORTED BY ELEMENTS IN THE DEFENSE FORCES, HAVE NOT STOPPED. THEY KILLED HUNDREDS OF LABOR UNION LEADERS AND LEFTISTS.</p><p>THE VISIT TO ISRAEL BY GUATEMALAN FOREIGN MINISTER ARIEL IRIAS RIVERA PROVIDES AN OPPORTUNITY TO UNDERSTAND WHAT IS HAPPENING IN HIS COUNTRY. AFTER ALL, NO ONE AT THE FOREIGN MINISTRY HAS EXPRESSED AN INTEREST IN IT.</p><p>[SLUTZKY] BEFORE YOU CAME HERE, YOU SAID THAT YOU INTEND TO MAKE A CONTRIBUTION HERE FROM YOUR EXPERIENCE IN BRINGING PEACE TO CENTRAL AMERICA. WHAT CAN THE MIDDLE EAST LEARN FROM CENTRAL AMERICA?</p><p>[RIVERA] YOU CAN LEARN THAT PROBLEMS CAN BE SOLVED WITHOUT VIOLENCE, THAT INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE AND GUARANTEES ARE IMPORTANT. IT SEEMS TO US THAT THE PROPOSITION TO HOLD AN INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE IS THE ONE THAT EVENTUALLY WILL BRING PEACE TO YOUR AREA. AT THE SAME TIME, WE ARE AWARE OF THE LARGE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE SITUATION IN OUR REGION, WHERE ALL THE PEOPLES HAVE THE SAME ORIGIN, AND YOURS, WHERE NATIONAL, COMMUNITY, AND RELIGIOUS CONFLICTS ARE INTERTWINED.</p><p>[SLUTZKY] IT WAS SAID IN JERUSALEM THAT YOU HAVE NOT COME HERE TO PURCHASE MILITARY EQUIPMENT. THAT SORT OF CLARIFICATION DOES NOT USUALLY PRECEDE A VISIT BY A FOREIGN MINISTER TO ISRAEL.</p><p>[RIVERA] IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THEY WANTED TO CLARIFY AN ISSUE THAT IS SELF-EVIDENT FOR US. WITH US, WEAPON DEALS ARE CARRIED OUT BY MILITARY PERSONNEL.</p><p>[SLUTZKY] THE ISRAELI CHAPTER OF AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL WANTED TO PRESENT YOU WITH A PETITION SIGNED BY HUNDREDS OF ISRAELIS DEMANDING THAT HUMAN RIGHTS' ABUSE IN GUATEMALA IN THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS BE INVESTIGATED.</p><p>[RIVERA] I HAVE A DEEP RESPECT FOR AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL, BUT WE FEEL IT IS OUTDATED TO USE TOOLS FROM A DICTATORIAL PAST ON PRESENT REGIMES. IT IS WELL KNOWN THAT CEREZO'S GOVERNMENT HAS A POLICY THAT IS DIFFERENT FROM ITS PREDECESSORS'. NEVERTHELESS, THERE STILL ARE CENTERS OF RIGHT-WING POWER IN OUR COUNTRY; THOSE GROUPS FEAR THE STABILIZATION OF DEMOCRACY.</p><p>[SLUTZKY] CEREZO PROMISED TO INVESTIGATE ISRAELI INVOLVEMENT IN GUATEMALA, INCLUDING ARMS AND DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY SALES. HAS ANYTHING BEEN DONE IN THAT RESPECT?</p><p>[RIVERA] FROM WHAT I KNOW, ISRAEL SOLD WEAPONS TO GUATEMALA AT THE FULL PRICE WHEN THE U.S. BOYCOTT WAS IN EFFECT AND OUR ARMY NEEDED MILITARY EQUIPMENT TO FIGHT THE GUERRILLAS. OTHER THAN THAT, OUR DECISION IS NOT TO SCRATCH THE WOUNDS OF THE PAST, BUT TO WORRY ABOUT PEACE IN THE FUTURE.</p><p>[SLUTZKY] CEREZO'S GOVERNMENT APPEARS TO BE ONE WITH GOOD INTENTIONS, BUT WITHOUT COMPLETE CONTROL OVER THE ARMY AND THOSE CONNECTED WITH THE DEATH SQUADS.</p><p>[RIVERA] THIS IS AN INCORRECT IMAGE. I WOULD NOT SAY THAT IT IS EASY TO OVERCOME ALL THE POWER ELEMENTS IN A FEW YEARS. STILL, I CAN SAY THAT PROGRESS IS BEING MADE IN THIS FIELD. THE ARMY'S COMMAND HEADED BY GENERAL GRAMAJO MORALES, THE DEFENSE MINISTER, GREATLY ASSISTED THE PROCESS OF DEMOCRATIZATION.</p><p>[SLUTZKY] ARE THE ELEMENTS THAT TOOK PART IN THE COUPS NOT CONNECTED TO THE EXTREME RIGHT-WING AND THE DEATH SQUADS WHICH MURDERED HUNDREDS OF CITIZENS IN THE PAST FEW YEARS, UNDER A DEMOCRATIC REGIME?</p><p>[RIVERA] IT IS VERY PROBABLE, BUT WE MUST REMEMBER THAT THESE ELEMENTS ARE A MINORITY, AFTER ALL. THE OFFICERS WHO WERE INVOLVED IN THE FIRST COUP WERE PARDONED. THE OFFICERS WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE SECOND COUP WERE BROUGHT TO TRIAL. I BELIEVE THIS INDICATES A POSITIVE DEVELOPMENT.</p><p>[SLUTZKY] IN YOUR OPINION, WILL CEREZO BE ABLE TO APPEAR BEFORE THE VOTERS IN A FEW MONTHS AND PROVE THAT HE HAS KEPT HIS PROMISES?</p><p>[RIVERA] TO A LARGE EXTENT, YES. ECONOMIC GROWTH HAS BEGUN; POLITICAL AND PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ALLOWED; POLITICAL LEADERS ARE NO LONGER SYSTEMATICALLY MURDERED AS IN THE PAST; AND THERE IS NO VIOLENT SUPPRESSION OF DEMOCRATIC EXPRESSIONS. CEREZO IS TRYING TO PLAY THE DEMOCRATIC GAME ALL THE WAY.</p><p>[JERUSALEM DOMESTIC SERVICE IN HEBREW AT 0400 GMT ON 17 MAY 90 REPORTS THAT "GUATEMALA WILL SET UP A CULTURAL CENTER IN JERUSALEM IN THE BUILDING WHERE ITS CHANCERY WAS LOCATED UNTIL THE JERUSALEM LAW WAS PASSED. HOWEVER, BECAUSE OF ITS SENSITIVE POSITION IN INTERNATIONAL FORUMS, IT WILL NOT BE ABLE TO MOVE THE EMBASSY BACK FROM TEL AVIV TO THE CAPITAL, GUATEMALAN FOREIGN MINISTER ARIEL IRIAS RIVERA TOLD OUR CORRESPONDENT GID'ON REMEZ."]</p></body></html>