<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0135"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0135"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0135</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0135 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 18 MAR 89 (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [TEXT] ON THE EVE OF PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS, MORE THAN 80 PERCENT OF PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION IN SAN SALVADOR IS PARALYZED WHILE A MAJORITY OF THE RESIDENTS ARE NOT RECEIVING POTABLE WATER OR ELECTRIC POWER.</p><p>REPORTS ARRIVING THIS MORNING FROM THE OUTSKIRTS OF THE CAPITAL, STATE THAT CITIES SUCH AS MEJICANOS, SAN MARCOS, APOPA, ISUSTEPEQUE, AND DELGADO, AMONG OTHERS, HAVE NOT RECEIVED BASIC PUBLIC SERVICES FOR THE PAST 3 DAYS.</p><p>THE NATIONAL POLICE THIS MORNING REPORTED THAT PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION IN SAN SALVADOR HAS BEEN MORE THAN 80 PERCENT HALTED FOR THE 3D DAY IN A ROW AND ONLY CERTAIN MINIBUSES AND LIGHT CARGO VEHICLES ARE SERVING CERTAIN ROUTES.</p><p>WORKERS AT THE EASTERN AND WESTERN BUS TERMINALS OF THIS CAPITAL REPORT THAT THE TRANSPORTATION SITUATION IS SIMILAR TO YESTERDAY'S. NO BUSES HAVE ARRIVED OR DEPARTED SAN SALVADOR FOR THE COUNTRY'S 13 DEPARTMENTS.</p><p>MUCH CENTRAL AMERICAN COMMERCIAL TRANSPORTATION IS ALSO PARALYZED BY THE TRANSPORTATION STOPPAGE IN EL SALVADOR SINCE MANY RAILROAD BOXCARS ARE BEING HELD UP AT THE SALVADORAN BORDERS UNABLE TO ENTER THE NATIONAL TERRITORY.</p><p>MEANWHILE, AT LEAST TWO BOMBS PLACED NEAR ELECTRIC POWER POLES WERE DETONATED THIS MORNING IN SAN SALVADOR. ONE WAS PLACED AT 16 WEST STREET IN THE IVU NEIGHBORHOOD, IN THE SOUTHERN AREA OF THE CAPITAL, AND A FRAGMENTATION GRENADE EXPLODED NEAR THE SANTA ISABEL NEIGHBORHOOD. A TELEPHONE JUNCTION BOX, THE EXACT LOCATION OF WHICH HAS NOT YET BEEN DETERMINED, WAS ALSO DESTROYED.</p><p>MILITARY SECURITY HAS BEEN STEPPED UP THROUGHOUT THIS CAPITAL AND ITS OUTSKIRTS ONLY 24 HOURS BEFORE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS. OFFICIAL SOURCES THIS MORNING REPORTED THAT ARMED FORCES TROOPS ARE MAINLY PATROLING SAN SALVADOR GAS STATIONS, SINCE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] URBAN COMMANDS HAVE THREATENED TO DESTROY THEM.</p><p>IT WAS ALSO REPORTED THAT SALVADORAN AIR FORCE HELICOPTERS ARE OVERFLYING THE CAPITAL TO PROTECT VEHICLES THAT ARE TRANSITTING THE MAIN STREETS OF SAN SALVADOR, DESPITE THE TRANSPORTATION STOPPAGE DECREED BY THE INSURGENCY 3 DAYS AGO. REPORTS ALSO STATE THAT THE NATIONAL AND TREASURY POLICE ARE OFFERING FREE TRANSPORTATION TO PEOPLE HEADING FOR THEIR RESPECTIVE WORK PLACES.</p><p>THE ARMY IS USING LOUDSPEAKERS ON MILITARY VEHICLES TO URGE THE PEOPLE TO VOTE IN PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS TOMORROW. FOR SUNDAY'S ELECTIONS, THE ARMY WILL DEPLOY A LARGE NUMBER OF UNITS TO TRANSPORT VOTERS, WHO WILL BE GOING TO THEIR RESPECTIVE POLLING PLACES THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.</p><p>IN THE SALVADORAN CAPITAL, POLICE-MILITARY SECURITY HAS BEEN STEPPED UP LESS THAN 24 BEFORE THE 1989 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS. WE HAVE NOTICED A LARGER NUMBER OF SECURITY PERSONNEL NEAR THE SEVEN VOTING CENTERS THE CENTRAL ELECTORAL COUNCIL HAS SET UP IN SAN SALVADOR MUNICIPALITY.</p><p>IN THE OUTLYING CITIES OF NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR, SUCH AS MEXICANOS, CUSCATANCINGO, AND APOPA, TRANSPORTATION IS STILL COMPLETELY PARALYZED IN THE WAKE OF THE GROUND TRANSPORTATION STOPPAGE DECREED BY THE FMLN, WHICH IS IN ITS 3D DAY TODAY.</p><p>MEANWHILE, REPORTS FROM CHALATENANGO, 72 KM NORTH OF SAN SALVADOR, STATE THAT THE ENTIRE DEPARTMENT IS WITHOUT ELECTRICITY DUE TO RATIONING THAT THE CEL [LEMPA RIVER HYDROELECTRIC EXECUTIVE COMMISSION] HAS IMPOSED ON THE ENTIRE COUNTRY AFTER FMLN GUERRILLAS CARRIED OUT LARGE-SCALE SABOTAGE OPERATIONS AGAINST THE ELECTRICITY NETWORK EARLY THIS WEEK.</p><p>MILITARY SOURCES CONSULTED THIS MORNING IN CHALATENANGO SAID THAT THERE HAVE BEEN NO CLASHES BETWEEN MILITARY FORCES AND GUERRILLAS IN THAT AREA FOR THE PAST FEW HOURS. THESE SOURCES SAID THAT THE VOTING BOOTHS THAT WILL BE INSTALLED IN 33 MUNICIPALITIES OF THAT NORTHERN DEPARTMENT ARE READY. THEY ADDED THAT THE NUMBER OF MILITARY UNITS IN THAT AREA OF THE COUNTRY HAS BEEN INCREASED.</p></body></html>