<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0564"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0564"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0564</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0564 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 11 OCT 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 2) -- [TEXT] JOSE RAFAEL ABELLO SILVA, CHIEF OF THE DRUG TRAFFICKING CARTEL ON THE COAST AND FOURTH MAN IN THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, WAS ARRESTED BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY, DAS, IN NORTHERN BOGOTA DURING THE LAST FEW HOURS. ABELLO IS WANTED BY A U.S. FEDERAL COURT IN OKLAHOMA, THE UNITED STATES, FOR CONSPIRACY TO DISTRIBUTE DRUGS. ACTIVE IN THE MARIJUANA BUSINESS DURING THE LAST DECADE AND IS NOW RESPONSIBLE FOR THE TRANSPORTATION OF A SUBSTANTIAL PART OF THE COCAINE WHICH THE MEDELLIN CARTEL SENDS TO THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>AVELLO, 34, NATIVE OF SANTA MARTA, HAD BEEN ARRESTED IN EARLY 1988 FOR ILLEGAL POSSESSION OF WEAPONS ON THE ATLANTIC COAST. SHORTLY AFTER LUIS CARLOS GALAN'S ASSASSINATION, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT ASKED FOR HIS EXTRADITION, BEARING IN MIND THAT THE FEDERAL COURT IN OKLAHOMA IS TRYING HIM FOR DRUG TRAFFICKING. HIS EXTRADITION IS TAKEN FOR GRANTYED, AND IT IS BELIEVED THAT IT WILL TAKE PLACE ONCE ALL LEGAL REQUIREMENTS ARE MET, WHICH WILL NOT BE BEFORE 1 WEEK.</p><p>DAS SOURCES SAID THAT MONO AVELLO OFFERED 100 MILLION PESOS TO THE SIX DETECTIVES WHO ARRESTED HIM LAST NIGHT AT AN EXCLUSIVE RESTAURANT IN BOGOTA'S NORTHERN SECTION. THE AUTHORITIES HAD BEEN TRAILING HIM IN BOGOTA FOR SEVERAL DAYS. THE ARMY HAS OCCUPIED SEVERAL OF HIS PROPERTIES ON THE ATLANTIC COAST AND HAS SEIZED VEHICLES AND YACHTS BELONGING TO HIM.</p><p>IN ANOTHER DEVELOPMENT, IT HAS BEEN LEARNED THAT PERUVIAN JUSTICE YESTERDAY INSISTED AGAIN ON THE EXTRADITION OF EVARISTO PORRAS ARDILA, WHO ESCAPED FROM A JAIL IN PERU WHILE SERVING A SENTENCE FOR DRUG TRAFFICKING. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>