<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0522"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0522"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0522</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0522 (UMASS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 26 SEP 89 (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [TEXT] IT HAS BEEN REPORTED THAT THE AIRSTRIP IN CHILANGA, 5 KM NORTH OF THE CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO DE LA GOTERA, WAS ALMOST COMPLETELY DESTROYED. SEVERAL OTHER POSITIONS INSIDE THE CITY WERE ALSO ATTACKED. UNTIL NOW, NO GOVERNMENT OR REBEL CASUALTIES HAVE BEEN REPORTED. THE HIGHWAY LEADING FROM SAN FRANCISCO GOTERA TO SAN MIGUEL WAS MINED BY THE REBELS. TRAFFIC ALONG THIS HIGHWAY HAS CEASED UNTIL NOW.</p><p>IN LA UNION, THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] REBELS SAID THAT TROOPS OF THE FONSECA BATTALION OF THE 3RD DETACHMENT OF LA UNION WERE ATTACKED IN SAN SEBASTIAN NEAR SANTA ROSA DE LIMA. THE REBELS CLAIM THEY CAPTURED 3 SOLDIERS. ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF SAN FRANCISCO GOTERA, THE REBELS CLAIM THEY CAPTURED 2 SOLDIERS OF THE 4TH DETACHMENT OF SAN FRANCISCO GOTERA.</p><p>IN OTHER INCIDENTS, IT WAS REPORTED THAT SINCE 1600 LOCAL TIME ON 25 SEPTEMBER THERE HAVE BEEN FIERCE CLASHES IN VALLE NUEVO NEAR EL PARAISO IN CHALATENANGO. UNTIL NOW OFFICIAL SOURCES HAVE NOT REPORTED ANY CASUALTIES.</p><p>IN EL PAPAYAL, CIVILIAN SOURCES REPORT THAT THERE HAVE BEEN NO INCIDENTS IN THIS GOVERNMENT TELEPHONE EXCHANGE AND MICROWAVE STATION.</p><p>CLASHES CONTINUED THIS MORNING BETWEEN TROOPS OF THE 3RD AND 6TH INFANTRY BRIGADES IN USULUTAN. PATROLS ARE CHASING THE REBELS.</p><p>IT WAS ALSO REPORTED THAT IN CIUDAD BARRIOS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF SAN MIGUEL THE REBELS PLACED SOME ROADBLOCKS AND DISTURBED MILITARY POSITIONS. NO CASUALTIES HAVE BEEN REPORTED IN THESE INCIDENTS.</p><p>IT WAS REPORTED THAT IN YOLAIQUIN THE REBELS ALSO ATTACKED TROOPS OF THE 4TH DETACHMENT OF GOTERA. YOLAIQUIN IS IN MORAZAN DEPARTMENT.</p><p>IN MONCAGUA, ALSO IN SAN MIGUEL, ROADBLOCKS WERE PLACED ON THE HIGHWAY TO CHAPELTIQUE. NO CASUALTIES WERE REPORTED IN THESE INCIDENTS.</p><p>THE NATIONAL GUARD POST IN SESORI, NORTH OF SAN MIGUEL, WAS ALSO ATTACKED. NO CASUALITES WERE REPORTED IN THIS INCIDENT.</p><p>IN ANOTHER INCIDENT IN CUSCATLAN , IT WAS REPORTED THAT TROOPS OF THE 5TH DETACHMENT GUARDING THE BRIDGE AT LAS GUARAS WERE ATTACKED EARLY THIS MORNING BY THE REBELS. NO OFFICIAL BULLETIN HAS BEEN ISSUED BY THE 5TH DETACHMENT.</p><p>THE TOWN OF SAN BARTOLOME PERULAPIA WAS ATTACKED. NO ADDITIONAL DETAILS ARE KNOWN.</p><p>UNTIL NOW, THE ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE, COPREFA, HAS ONLY REPORTED FOUR SOLDIERS WOUNDED IN THE SAN FRACISCO GOTERA AREA. IT ADMITS THAT THE AIRSTRIP IN CHILANGA WAS DAMAGED. NO CASUALTIES HAVE BEEN REPORTED ANYWHERE ELSE IN THE COUNTRY WERE FIERCE CLASHES TOOK PLACE THIS MORNING STARTING AROUND 0200, AND WHICH ARE CONTINUING NOW IN CERTAIN AREAS.</p><p>COPREFA REPORTS THE DEATH OF 14 GUERILLAS NEAR TEJUTLA. ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL BULLETIN, 14 GUERRILLAS WERE KILLED IN CLASHES WITH TROOPS OF THE 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE IN CHALATENANGO. THE BULLETIN ALSO REPORTS THAT IMPORTANT MILITARY EQUIPMENT WAS SEIZED FROM THE FMLN GUERRILLAS.</p></body></html>