<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0930"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0930"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0930</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0930 (SRI)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 5 DEC 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] VIOLENT CLASHES BETWEEN THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLA FORCES AND THE ARMY TODAY AGAIN SHOOK THE NORTHWEST SECTOR OF SAN SALVADOR, AFTER A FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) COLUMN RAIDED THE TOWN OF SAN ANTONIO ABAD.</p><p>AT LEAST FIVE MILITARY AND REBEL DEATHS, THREE STORES PARTIALLY DESTROYED, AND ONE ELECTRIC POLE BLOWN UP ARE THE PRELIMINARY RESULTS OF THE CLASHES IN SAN ANTONIO ABAD, BETWEEN 2100 ON 4 DECEMBER AND 0200 5 DECEMBER.</p><p>THE FMLN GUERRILLA FORCES TODAY ALSO ATTACKED ARMY POSITIONS IN AYUTUXTEPEQUE, A WORKERS' NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF THE CAPITAL, AND LA CIMA NEIGHBORHOOD, SOUTHEAST OF THE CAPITAL, WHERE THE CLASHES WERE STILL UNDERWAY AT MID-MORNING.</p><p>THE ARMY ADMITTED THAT ONE SOLDIER DIED AND FIVE WERE WOUNDED DURING THE CLASHES IN SAN ANTONIO ABAD, A MIDDLE CLASS NEIGHBORHOOD LOCATED BESIDE THE ESCALON RESIDENTIAL AREA; AND AT LEAST FOUR REBELS WERE RIPPED TO PIECES BY A LAW [LIGHT AATI-TANK WEAPON] ROUND.</p><p>LOTS OF BLOOD AND PIECES OF FLESH STUCK TO BACKPACKS AND MILITARY UNIFORM FRAGMENTS WERE SCATTERED IN A-30 METER AREA WITHIN AN EMPTY LOT IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA OF THE TOWN.</p><p>AN OFFICER OF THE NATIONAL POLICE'S ELITE PANTERA BATTALION, WHICH PARTICIPATED IN THE FIGHTING, TOLD AFP: "THE ROUND FELL EXACTLY WHERE THEY WERE. AT LEAST FOUR DIED ON THE SPOT AND MANY WERE WOUNDED."</p><p>THE REBELS BLEW UP A GROCERY STORE AND AN ELECTRIC POLE IN DOWNTOWN SAN ANTONIO ABAD; AND ONE DRUGSTORE AND OTHER STORES ALSO SUSTAINED CONSIDERABLE DAMAGE DURING THE FIGHTING.</p><p>TENSION AND NERVOUSNESS PREVAILED THIS MORNING IN SAN ANTONIO ABAD, WHERE MANY PERSONS WERE LOOKING FOR EXPLOSIVES AND TNT LEFT BEHIND BY THE REBELS.</p><p>ARMY SPOKESMEN HAVE YET TO ISSUE A REPORT ON THE FIGHTING AT LA CIMA AND AYUTUXTEPEQUE, BUT THE PEOPLE OF AYUTUXTEPEQUE SAID THERE WAS FIERCE FIGHTING IN THE SECTOR, ADDING THAT THE REBELS ENTRENCHED THEMSELVES INSIDE THE LOCAL CHURCH TO FIRE AT THE GOVERNMENT'S TROOPS.</p><p>MEANWHILE, REPORTS FROM THE INTERIOR INDICATE THAT THE FIGHTING DIMINISHED TODAY IN THE REGION OF ZACATECOLUCA, USULUTAN, AND SAN MIGUEL, WHERE THE MILITARY SITUATION WAS EXTRAORDINARILY TENSE UNTIL THE NIGHT OF 4 DECEMBER.</p><p>NEVERTHELESS, THE GOVERNMENT TODAY EXPLAINED THAT THE REDUCTION IN CURFEW HOURS, FROM 2100 TO 0500 EFFECTIVE LAST NIGHT, DOES NOT APPLY FOR THE CITY OF ZACATECOLUCA, CAPITAL OF LA PAZ DEPARTMENT -- LOCATED IN THE CENTRAL PART OF THE COUNTRY -- WHICH THE GUERRILLA FORCES HAVE BEEN CONSTANTLY HARASSING THROUGHOUT THE WEEK.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE FMLN WARNED THE OWNERS OF COMMERCIAL AND CROP DUSTING AIRPLANES TO ABSTAIN FROM USING THEIR PLANMES FOR THE ARMY TO CONDUCTRE RECONAISSANCE FLIGHTS IN THE REGION OF ZACATECOLUCA AND USULUTAN, "BECAUSE THEY WILL BE CONSIDERED MILITARY TARGETS."</p></body></html>