<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0472"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0472"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MEXICO CITY (MEXICO)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0472</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0472 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>MEXICO CITY (MEXICO), 13 SEP 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] REBEL COMMANDER SHAFIK HANDAL IN THE MEXICAN CAPITAL TODAY SAID THAT THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS HAVE PROPOSED NINE POINTS "THAT REFLECT THE ASPIRATIONS OF THE ENTIRE NATION" TO THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE ALFREDO CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT.</p><p>HANDAL POINTED OUT THAT THEY WILL BE STUDIED TODAY AND TOMORROW DURING MEETINGS HERE BETWEEN REPRESENTATIVES OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) AND A SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT DELEGATION.</p><p>THE NINE POINTS REVEALED BY THE GUERRILLA COMMANDER ARE:</p><p>1. BEGINNING OF A PROCESS TO INTRODUCE AMENDMENTS TO THE JUDICIAL SYSTEM AGREED UPON BY CONSENSUS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND OPPOSITION PARTIES.</p><p>2. JOINT ACCORD ON MEASURES TO ENSURE THE END OF ALL FORMS OF REPRESSION AND FULL RESPECT FOR DEMOCRATIC LIBERTIES THAT WOULD BE VERIFIED BY THE UNITED NATIONS AND OAS.</p><p>3. PACT TO CONTINUE HONEST JUDICIAL PROCESS GUARANTEEING THE DETERMINATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES AND PUNISHMENT OF THOSE WHO ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ASSASSINATION OF MONSIGNOR OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO AND ALL THOSE INVOLVED IN DEATH SQUADS.</p><p>4. ACCORD TO DISSOLVE THE ECONOMIC STRUCTURE THAT CAUSES POLITICAL AND SOCIAL CONFRONTATION THROUGH THE MAINTENANCE OF REFORMS PROMOTED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE, WHO PRECEDED CRISTIANI.</p><p>5. PACT ON MEASURES FOR SELF-MONITORING AND PROFESSIONALIZATION OF THE ARMED FORCES.</p><p>6. COMMITMENT FROM THE ALFREDO CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT THAT IT WILL SUBMIT ACCORDS ON CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS THAT COULD EMERGE FROM THIS DIALOGUE THAT BEGINS TODAY FOR APPROVAL BY THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY.</p><p>7. ACCORD TO ADVANCE LEGISLATIVE AND MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS TO BRING ABOUT CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS AS SOON AS POSSIBLE AND ACCELERATE AN END TO THE WAR IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>8. MUTUAL GUARANTEES FOR THE OPERATION AND SETTLEMENT OF FORCES THAT WILL GUARANTEE RESPECT FOR A CEASE-FIRE WITHOUT THIS IMPLYING A VIOLATION OF THE NATIONAL TERRITORY.</p><p>9. INITIAL STEPS FOR THE INCORPORATION OF THE FMLN INTO SALVADORAN POLITICAL LIFE.</p><p>AS FOR THIS LATTER POINT, HANDAL SAID THAT THE FMLN MUST BECOME A POLITICAL PARTY BY REGISTERING ITS FOLLOWERS AND ESTABLISHING A RAPPORT WITH THE MEDIA.</p><p>HE POINTED OUT THAT THIS GUERRILLA GROUP HAS ESTABLISHED A "NO LATER THAN 15 NOVEMBER" DEADLINE TO ACHIEVE A CEASE-FIRE ACCORD.</p></body></html>