<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1054"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1054"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BRIDGETOWN (BARBADOS)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1054</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1054 (TRW)</p><p>BRIDGETOWN (BARBADOS), 18 JAN 90 (CANA) -- [TEXT] CARIBBEAN RIGHTS, WHICH GROUPS SEVEN HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANISATIONS IN THE REGION, ON THURSDAY JOINED AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL IN A CAMPAIGN DENOUNCING WHAT WAS DESCRIBED AS THE "INHUMANE AND VIOLENT CONDITIONS" PERPETRATED BY THE PERUVIAN ARMED FORCES.</p><p>IN A CABLE TO PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA, CARIBBEAN RIGHTS CALLED UPON THE AUTHORITIES TO INVESTIGATE ALL CASES OF EXTRAJUDICIAL EXECUTIONS AND TO PUNISH THOSE RESPONSIBLE. THE GROUP SAID THAT PREVIOUSLY THE MAJORITY OF THE VICTIMS WERE PEASANT FAMILIES IN REMOTE AREAS AND THAT THE VICTIMISATION HAS NOW BEEN EXTENDED TO THE DENSELY POPULARED DISTRICTS.</p><p>THE VICTIMS INCLUDE HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVISTS, TRADE UNIONISTS, LAWYERS, JOURNALISTS, AND OTHERS WHO TRY TO EXPOSE ABUSES AT THE LOCAL AND INTERNATIONAL LEVELS, THE CABLE SAID. CHILDREN WERE REPORTED TO BE PRIME TARGETS.</p><p>A RECENT REPORT PUBLISHED BY AMNESTY STATED THAT TORTURE, MURDER, RAPE, AND DISAPPEARANCES WERE METHODS ADOPTED BY THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT IN COMBATING VIOLENT OPPOSITION GROUPS LIKE THE "SHINING PATH" GUERRILLAS. IT SAID MOST OF THE VICTIMS WERE SECONDARY SCHOOL CHILDREN WHO ARE A MAJOR RECRUITMENT TARGET FOR THE SHINING PATH.</p><p>THE BARBADOS-BASED CARIBBEAN RIGHTS STRESSED IN ITS CABLE THAT IT WAS AWARE OF THE PROBLEMS THE GOVERNMENT WAS FACING WITH THE GUERRILLAS BUT EMPHASISED THAT IT WAS THE ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE GOVERNMENT TO UPHOLD LAW EVEN IN THE FACE OF VIOLENT OPPOSITION.</p></body></html>