<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0781"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0781"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0781</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0781 (PRC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 17 NOV 89 -- [INTERVIEW WITH VILLALOBOS, MEMBER OF THE GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [VILLALOBOS] [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE ARMY CARRIED OUT A LARGE BOMB ATTACK ON NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR IN AN EFFORT TO WEAKEN OUR POSITIONS. [WORDS INDISTINCT] THEY THOUGHT THEY WERE GOING TO HAVE A VICTORY THERE. BUT IT JUST SO HAPPENS THAT, ASIDE FROM ALL THE PROPAGANDA THEY USED AND THE PLAN TO WEAKEN US MILITARILY, THE ARMED FORCES ATTACKED UNION OFFICES AND THE HOMES OF LEADERS OF POPULAR MOVEMENTS IN VARIOUS SECTORS. APPARENTLY, EVERYONE HAD GONE INTO HIDING AND THEY ONLY FOUND THE WIFE OF A UNIVERSITY LEADER AND THEY KILLED HER. THEY ALSO FOUND THE JESUITS. IT SEEMS THAT IN VIEW OF RECENT TALKS WITH CRISTIANI, FATHER ELLACURIA HAD BECOME VERY TRUSTING. HE THOUGHT THAT NOTHING WOULD HAPPEN TO THEM. [30-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] THIS SITUATION SO THEY DID NOT PROTECT THEMSELVES IN THE FACE OF THE DANGER OF A POSSIBLE ACTION SUCH AS THIS CRIME.</p><p>ON THE SAME NIGHT WHEN THE ENTIRE NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR AREA WAS BEING BOMBED, THE JESUITS WERE KILLED. WHAT WAS THEIR INTENTION? THEY THOUGHT THEY WERE TO OBTAIN A MILITARY VICTORY AND SET OUT TO CARRY OUT A WITCH HUNT. THEY SET OUT TO KILL ALL OPPOSITION MEMBERS THAT ONE NIGHT, WITH THE IDEA THAT THEY WERE GOING TO WIPE OUT THE FMLN, MILITARILY. BASED ON THAT ASSUMPTION, THEY DECIDED TO CARRY OUT THIS ACTION TO GUARANTEE FOR THEMSELVES A FEW MORE YEARS OF STABILITY THROUGH THE PEACE OF CEMETERIES, REGARDLESS OF THE CONSEQUENCES.</p><p>WHAT REALLY HAPPENED? THE DAY AFTER THEY COMMITTED THE CRIME, THEY LAUNCHED THEIR OFFENSIVE TO ANNIHILATE THE FMLN. THEY THOUGHT THIS WAS GOING TO BE THEIR DECISIVE DAY, BUT THE OFFENSIVE FAILED. THEIR ATTACK WAS REPELLED, THEY SUSTAINED MANY CASUALTIES, AND LOSS MUCH MATERIEL. THEIR TROOPS WERE FURTHER BEATEN AND THEY DID NOT OBTAIN ANY EFFECTIVE MILITARY RESULTS.</p><p>CONSEQUENTLY, THEIR COUNTEROFFENSIVE WAS REJECTED AND THE BLOW THEY THOUGHT THEY WERE GOING TO DEAL TO THE LEADERS OF THE POPULAR MOVEMENT FAILED, ON THE ONE HAND BECAUSE SOME OF THESE LEADERS WERE HIDING AND ON THE OTHER BECAUSE THEY COMMITTED AN HORRENDOUS CRIME AND IT BACKFIRED. IT WAS A CRIME [WORD INDISTINCT] BY THE GENERAL STAFF AND MR. CRISTIANI KNEW ABOUT IT. CRISTIANI CLEARLY [WORDS INDISTINCT] AND PROBABLY EVEN THE U.S. EMBASSY COULD BE INVOLVED IN THIS. THEY THOUGHT THAT BY KILLING ALL OPPOSITION MEMBERS, THEY WERE GOING TO ACHIEVE DEFINITE PEACE IN EL SALVADOR. THIS IS VERY CLEAR. BUT THIS ACTION BACKFIRED. IT WAS A PAINFUL INCIDENT, BUT IT IS AN INCIDENT THAT IS GOING TO BACKFIRE FOR THE GOVERNMENT. IT IS GOING TO RESULT IN GREAT ISOLATION FOR THE REGIME, AT A MOMENT WHEN THE FMLN IS STRONGER. AT A MOMENT WHEN THE FMLN HAS A POLITICAL, MILITARY, AND STRATEGIC ADVANTAGE.</p><p>THE MURDER OF THE JESUITS IS SUICIDE FOR THE REGIME. I REALLY DO NOT UNDERSTAND IT. THEY MADE A VERY SERIOUS MISTAKE. IN ADDITION, THEY CONFIRMED A TRUTH WE HAVE BEEN MAINTAINING: THEY ARE FASCISTS AND ASSASSINS. THEY MUST LEAVE POWER. THEY HAVE CREATED A SITUATION IN WHICH THE POSSIBILITY FOR AN FMLN VICTORY IS GREAT. THEY HAVE CREATED A SITUATION IN WHICH THE DISAPPEARANCE OF THE MOST CONSERVATIVE OLIGARCHIC SECTORS OF THE SALVADORAN SOCIETY WILL BE CAUSED BY THEIR OWN MISTAKES. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>