<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0043"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0043"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-01-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MADRID (SPAIN)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0043</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0043 (NOSC)</p><p>MADRID (SPAIN), 26 JAN 89 (RNE) -- [TEXT] NAPOLEON DUARTE, PRESIDENT OF EL SALVADOR, HAS REJECTED THE PROPOSAL FROM THE GUERRILLAS, WHO ACCEPTED THE ELECTIONS IF THEY WERE POSTPONED FOR 6 MONTHS AND HELD WITH DEMOCRATIC GUARANTEES. TODAY A DELEGATION OF THE SALVADORAN INSURGENTS WILL HOLD TALKS IN MADRID WITH REPRESENTATIVES OF THE SPANISH FOREIGN MINISTRY. THE SPANISH OFFICIALS' INTERLOCUTOR IS MIGUEL SAENZ, MEMBER OF THE POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC COMMISSION OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] AND THIS IS HIS FIRST REACTION, IN EXCLUSIVE STATEMENTS TO RNE [SPANISH NATIONAL RADIO], TO NAPOLEON DUARTE'S REJECTION OF THE INSURGENTS' PROPOSAL.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [SAENZ] THE ONLY WAY LEFT IS TO CONTINUE THE STRUGGLE, AND THUS WE WOULD HAVE TO INTENSIFY THIS STRUGGLE IN THE POLITICAL AND MILITARY FIELD. THEN, UNFAILINGLY, IF THERE IS NO POLITICAL SOLUTION, THERE WILL BE A SOCIAL EXPLOSION IN THE COUNTRY. IT IS UNSTOPPABLE. WE BELIEVE THAT SPAIN IN PARTICULAR, AS PRESIDENT OF THE EEC, WITH THE TRADITIONAL, CULTURAL TIES UNITING US, CAN PLAY QUITE A PROMINENT ROLE. SPECIFICALLY, WE BELIEVE THAT THE EEC CAN INTERCEDE WITH ITS OFFICES BETWEEN THE PARTIES IN CONFLICT IN ORDER TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE RESOLUTION OF THE CONFLICT. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>