<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1142"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1142"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1142</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1142 (UNISYS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 26 FEB 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] SEVERAL COLOMBIAN PRESIDENTIAL HOPEFULES, LIBERALS ERNESTO SAMPER PIZANO AND HERNANDO DURAN AND CONSERVATIVE RODRIGO LLOREDA CAICEDO, EXPRESSED THEIR WILLINGNESS TODAY TO HOLD A DIALOGUE WITH THE EXTRADITABLES, THE ARMED WING OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, AFTER THE EXTRADITABLES VOICED THEIR DESIRE FOR SUCH TALKS.</p><p>THE EXTRADITABLES ASKED THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT TODAY TO COME UP WITH THE MECHANISMS TO MAKE IT POSSIBLE FOR THEM TO TURN THEMSELVES IN TO THE JUSTICE SYSTEM, SUCH AS SURRENDERING THEIR WEAPONS, AMMUNITION, AND EXPLOSIVES, ACCORDING TO A LETTER DELIVERED TO THE GROUP OF NOTABLES, A GROUP OF MEDIATORS.</p><p>GOVERNMENT MINISTER CARLOS LEMOS AND OTHER AUTHORITIES REJECTED THE PROPOSALS MADE BY THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS.</p><p>THERE WILL BE NO MECHANISMS AND NO COMMISSIONS OTHER THAN THE COURTS, LEMOS SAID WHEN HE HEARD ABOUT THE PROPOSAL SENT TO THE GROUP OF NOTABLES FROM MEDELLIN.</p><p>THE GROUP OF NOTABLES IS COMPOSED OF FORMER LIBERAL PRESIDENTS ALFONSO LOPEZ AND JULIO CESAR TURBAY, FORMER SOCIAL CONSERVATIVE PRESIDENT MISAEL PASTRANA, BOGOTA ARCHBISHOP AND CARDINAL MARIO REVOLLO, AND DIEGO MONTANA, PRESIDENT OF THE LEFTIST PATRIOTIC UNION (UP).</p><p>LIBERAL SENATOR SAMPER PIZANO, AFTER LEARNING OF THE GOVERNMENT'S REFUSAL TO ACCEPT THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS' PROPOSAL, SAID THAT THERE ARE CERTAIN WARMONGERING SPIRITS IN THE GOVERNMENT, WHO MUST CHANGE THEIR ATTITUDE SO AS TO PUT AN END TO THE WAR.</p><p>THE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE ADDED THAT THE OFFERS MADE BY THE EXTRADITABLES COULD BE ACCEPTED WITHOUT DISMANTLING THE DE JURE STATE OR THE COUNTRY'S INSTITUTIONS.</p><p>HERNANDO DURAN DESCRIBED THE PROPOSAL AS A STEP FORWARD IN THE EFFORTS BEING MADE TO NORMALIZE THE SITUATION OF THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS, AND HE WARNED THAT THE GOVERNMENT AND ITS OFFICERS MUST RESPOND TO THIS PROPOSAL.</p><p>I BELIEVE THE NEW OFFER TENDS TO CREATE A CLIMATE OF DETENTE BETWEEN THOSE INVOLVED IN DRUG TRAFFICKING ACTIVITIES AND THE GOVERNMENT ITSELF, DURAN SAID.</p><p>SOCIAL CONSERVATIVE CANDIDATE RODRIGO LLOREDA SAID THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS THE OBLIGATION TO RESPOND TO THE EXTRADITABLES, AND HE ADDED THAT WHEN HE BECOMES PRESIDENT HE WILL DO SO.</p><p>HOWEVER, LLOREDA CAICEDO SAID THAT THE BASIC CONDITIONS FOR REACHING AN AGREEMENT ON THEIR SURRENDER IS TO HAVE THOSE WHO COMMITTED CRIMES TURN THEMSELVES IN AND BE JUDGED BY THE COLOMBIAN JUSTICE SYSTEM. HE ADDED: IT IS ALSO NECESSARY FOR THEM TO COMPENSATE THE VICTIMS OF THEIR TERRORIST ACTIONS; THERE SHOULD BE GUARANTEES FOR THE DISMANTLING OF THEIR PRODUCTIVE APPARATUS; THERE SHOULD BE A SUSPENSION OF THE PROCESSING AND SHIPMENT OF COCAINE ABROAD; AND INTERNATIONAL OBSERVERS SHOULD BE BROUGHT IN TO VERIFY THE PROCESS.</p></body></html>