<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0062"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0062"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-02-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0062</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0062 (NOSC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 6 FEB 89 -- [TEXT] JUSTICE MINISTER JULIO ALFREDO SAMAYOA SAID TODAY ALL THE EVIDENCE GATHERED BY THE CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS COMMISSION DEMONSTRATES THAT DR ANTONIO REGALADO WAS THE PERPETRATOR OF THE MURDER OF MSGR ROMERO.</p><p>IN HIS CAPACITY AS CHAIRMAN OF THE CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS COMMISSION, DR JULIO ALFREDO SAMAYOA REPORTED TODAY IN DETAIL ON THE MURDER OF MSGR OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO. DR SAMAYOA SAID TO CLARIFY THE CASE, THE COMMISSION HAS CONDUCTED 238 MEETINGS, OVER 100 INQUIRIES, AND 21 DEPOSITIONS. HE ADDED THAT THE INVESTIGATION WAS CARRIED OUT UNDER THE NAME OF "OPERATION PINEAPPLE" AND THAT IT WAS CONCLUDED THAT MAJOR ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON WAS THE MASTERMIND AND DR ANTONIO REGALADO WAS THE PERPETRATOR.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [SAMAYOA] THERE IS NO DOUBT. ALL THE INVESTIGATIONS CARRIED OUT BY THE COMMISSION POINT TO MAJ ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON AS THE MASTERMIND. THIS HAS TO BE PROVEN IN COURT. HOWEVER, HE HAS PARLIAMENTARY IMMUNITY; HE CANNOT BE BROUGHT TO COURT. THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE [ARENA] HAS THE MAJORITY IN THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, AND ARENA IS NOT GOING TO PERMIT A DECLARATION THAT WILL BRING HIS CASE TO COURT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>DR SAMAYOA ALSO SAID HE IS WILLING TO PRESENT ALL THE EVIDENCE HE HAS ON THE CASE. HOWEVER, HE SAID HE DID NOT TRUST THE BEHAVIOR OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE REPUBLIC:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [SAMAYOA] WE WILL PRESENT THE EVIDENCE. I THINK THEY ARE GOING TO BE SORRY THEY MADE THAT REQUEST, BECAUSE MANY PERSONS ARE INVOLVED. SINCE THEIR PARTICIPATION HAS NOT YET BEEN PROVEN, THESE NAMES HAVE NOT YET BEEN RELEASED. HOWEVER, WHEN WE PRESENT THE ENTIRE DOSSIER TO THE COURTS, THESE NAMES ARE GOING TO COME UP. THEN SOME WILL JUDGE AND DECIDE IF THEY PARTICIPATED OR NOT. BUT THEIR NAMES ARE THERE, AS ARE THEIR ACTIVITIES AND THEIR RELATIONSHIPS TO THE DEATH SQUADS. MANY PERSONS WHO ARE MENTIONED ARE APPARENTLY RESPECTABLE, AND I MEAN RESPECTABLE IN QUOTES. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE ASSASSINATION OF MSGR OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO TOOK PLACE ON 24 MARCH 1980; ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL, THE INVESTIGATIONS HAVE TAKEN 9 YEARS BECAUSE MANY PERSONS CONSIDERED KEY WITNESSES HAVE DIED SINCE THE TIME OF THE MURDER. HOWEVER, HE ADDED, WITH THE COOPERATION OF THE FBI AS WELL AS SOME CENTRAL AMERICAN INVESTIGATION ORGANIZATIONS, THE CASE HAS BEEN CLARIFIED, WHICH MIGHT LEAD TO THE IMPRISONMENT OF MAJ D'AUBUISSON ONCE HE LOSES HIS PARLIAMENTARY IMMUNITY.</p></body></html>