<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0812"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0812"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0812</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0812 (PRC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [INTERVIEW WITH SALVADOR SAMAYOA, MEMBER OF THE POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC COMMISSION OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT-DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTIONARY FRONT, FMLN-FDR, BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [SAMAYOA] THEREFORE, THE WESTERN EUROPEAN PRESS, POLITICAL PARTIES, LABOR UNIONS, AND GENERAL PUBLIC ARE VERY STRONGLY REJECTING CRISTIANI'S REGIME. THE CONGRESSES AND PARLIAMENTS OF MANY WESTERN EUROPEAN COUNTRIES ARE SAYING THAT THE COOPERATION THE SALVADORAN REGIME RECEIVES SHOULD BE REEVALUATED.</p><p>[REPORTER] COMRADE SALVADOR SAMAYOA, THE GOVERNMENT NETWORK IS REPORTING THAT U.S. AID TO CRISTIANI WILL CONTINUE. THE COLONELS HAVE ALSO SAID THAT THE FMLN CANNOT DEFEAT THE ARMED FORCES BECAUSE THE LATTER HAS MILITARY AND ECONOMIC AID FROM THE U.S. GOVERNMENT. RETURNING TO THIS POINT, COMRADE SAMAYOA, WHAT IS YOUR VIEW? WHAT OPTIONS DOES THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAVE CONCERNING EL SALVADOR, AND WHAT IMPACT HAS THE NEW SITUATION HAD ON U.S. POLICY TOWARD EL SALVADOR?</p><p>[SAMAYOA] AS I SAID, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT MUST TAKE INTO CONSIDERATION THAT A NEW INTERNAL SITUATION OF GENERALIZED POPULAR, POLITICAL, AND SOCIAL DISCONTENT IS TAKING SHAPE, AND THAT FROM THIS MOMENT ON ITS POLICY IN EL SALVADOR WILL UNDERGO ISOLATION AND WILL BE REJECTED BY THE AMERICAN PEOPLE, AND EVEN BY VERY IMPORTANT SECTORS WITHIN THE HOUSE AND SENATE.</p><p>SO FAR, THE U.S. ADMINISTRATION HAS STUBBORNLY CONTINUED PROVIDING AID AND SUPPORT TO A REGIME THAT IS OBVIOUSLY CRIMINAL AND GENOCIDAL, AND THAT POLICY IS [WORDS INDISTINCT] CURRENTLY A VERY STRONG DEBATE IN THE UNITED STATES. THE OPTIONS AVAILABLE TO THE U.S. GOVERNMENT ARE TO SINK WITH THE CRISTIANI REGIME, WHICH IS OBVIOUSLY MOVING TOWARD DEFEAT AND MILITARY AND POLITICAL DESTRUCTION DESPITE ALL THE PROPAGANDA IT HAS MADE, OR TO CHANGE ITS OPINION WHILE THERE IS STILL TIME. THE ALTERNATIVE OF A CHANGE OF GOVERNMENT, A REPLACEMENT OF CRISTIANI'S REGIME OR THE MILITARY HIERARCHY, IS ALREADY UNDER DISCUSSION. THESE, THEREFORE, ARE THE TWO ALTERNATIVES AVAILABLE TO THE UNITED STATES: EITHER CHANGE ITS POLICY IN TIME AND REPLACE CRISTIANI, OR THE GOVERNMENT WILL SINK BECAUSE ITS PROPAGANDA IS NOT WORKING.</p><p>THE U.S. AMBASSADOR HAS MADE A FOOL OF HIMSELF. HE SAID THE GUERRILLAS HAD 1,500 MEN IN SAN SALVADOR, AND HE HAS LISTED CASUALTY FIGURES ACCORDING TO WHICH THE FMLN SUFFERED OVER 500 DEATHS, OVER 400 WOUNDED, AND OTHERS CAPTURED. ACCORDING TO THE FIGURES QUOTED BY THE U.S. AMBASSADOR, WHO PROVIDES GOVERNMENT WAR BULLETINS AND HAS ALMOST BECOME THE SALVADORAN DEFENSE MINISTER, THE FMLN ONLY HAS 200 MEN LEFT IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>WHAT I FIND INEXPLICABLE IS THE GOVERNMENT'S NEED TO USE 40 OR 50 WAR PLANES AND HELICOPTERS, ALONG WITH ITS ARTILLERY AND ELITE BATTALIONS, TO BOMB AND DESTROY CITIES, ESPECIALLY SAN SALVADOR. THAT IS WHY THEIR PROPAGANDA HAS BACKFIRED ON THEM. IN THE UNITED STATES THE PRESS AND GENERAL PUBLIC KNOW FULL WELL THAT THE FMLN OFFENSIVE IS IN FULL FORCE AND IS MOVING FORWARD, AND THAT THE U.S. POLICY IS REACHING THE POINT OF TOTAL FAILURE.</p><p>[REPORTER] TO CONCLUDE, COMRADE SAMAYOA, WHAT IS YOUR MESSAGE ON RADIO VENCEREMOS TO THE COMRADES WHO HAVE MAINTAINED THEIR POSITIONS IN SAN SALVADOR, SAN MIGUEL, ZACATECOLUCA, USULUTAN, AND VARIOUS POINTS OF THE NATIONAL TERRITORY? WHAT IS YOUR MESSAGE TO THE FIGHTERS AND THE PEOPLE?</p><p>[SAMAYOA] TO ALL THE COMRADES WHO ARE FIGHTING IN TRENCHES THROUGHOUT THE LENGTH AND BREADTH OF OUR COUNTRY, I MUST SAY THAT THE AFFECTION AND ADMIRATION YOU HAVE GENERATED THROUGHOUT THE WORLD, THE SOLIDARITY WITH YOUR STRUGGLE, AND THE SURPRISING STRENGTH AND HEROISM YOU HAVE DISPLAYED ARE NOW RECEIVING SUPPORT FROM ALMOST ALL OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE WORLD. THEREFORE, OUR STRUGGLE NOT ONLY IS NOT ALONE, BUT IT HAS NOW ACHIEVED MAXIMUM SUPPORT OF ALL TYPES: POLITICAL, MATERIAL, ECONOMIC. SOLIDARITY HAS MULTIPLIED HUNDREDFOLD OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS, AND IT WILL BE AN INEXHAUSTIBLE SOURCE OF SUPPORT THAT WILL CONTRIBUTE TO COMPLETING THE FASCIST REGIME'S DESTRUCTION. THE PEOPLE OF THE WORLD ADMIRE THE STRUGGLE THE COMRADES AND FIGHTERS IN ALL THE CITIES IN THIS COUNTRY ARE WAGING, AND THEY VERY CLEARLY UNDERSTAND THAT THE STRUGGLE IS FOR A JUST CAUSE AND AGAINST A COMPLETELY ILLEGITIMATE, FASCIST, AND CRIMINAL REGIME.</p><p>THE COMRADES CAN REST ASSURED OF THIS INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT, WHICH IS CURRENTLY VERY GREAT. IT IS IMPRESSIVE TO SEE ALL OF THE AFFECTION AND ADMIRATION THAT OUR FIGHTERS ARE RECEIVING FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD.</p><p>[REPORTER] THANK YOU VERY MUCH, SALVADOR. OUR GREETINGS TO ALL THE OTHER COMRADES.</p><p>[SAMAYOA] THANK YOU, [WORDS INDISTINCT]. THANK YOU VERY MUCH.</p></body></html>