<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0715"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0715"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0715</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0715 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 13 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] IN FRONT OF US WE HAVE A MAP OF SAN SALVADOR, WHERE OUR COMRADES ARE BUILDING BARRICADES THROUGHOUT THE CITY. WE HAVE THE MAP OF SAN SALVADOR SHOWING THE NORTHERN PART OF THE CITY COVERED WITH LITTLE RED FLAGS. THESE ARE POINTS UNDER THE CONTROL OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN]. THESE ARE AREAS WHERE OUR FORCES ARE ATTACKING ARMY POSITIONS AND WHERE AMBUSHES HAVE BEEN SET. THERE ARE FLAGS POINTING TO AREAS WHERE AMBUSHES HAVE BEEN SET, AREAS FROM WHICH SOLDIERS HAVE BEEN DISLODGED, AND AREAS UNDER FMLN CONTROL.</p><p>IF WE LOOK AT THE NORTHERN PART OF THE CITY MAP WE CAN SEE LITTLE RED FLAGS IN THE AREA OF ZACAMIL, EL CARMEN NEIGHBORHOOD, EL CARMEN HILL AREA, UNIVERSITARIA NEIGHBORHOOD, MEJICANOS, EL PORVERNIR NEIGHBORHOOD, CIUDAD DELGADO, SAN SEBASTIAN NEIGHBORHOOD, GUADALCANAL NEIGHBORHOOD, CUSCATLAN AND LOMAS DE RIO NEIGHBORHOODS, AND ALL OF SOYAPANGO. FMLN FORCES ARE ALL OVER THE SOYAPANGO AREA.</p><p>RED AND WHITE FLAGS DENOTE FIRING LINES, AND THESE ARE FOUND IN CIUDAD CREDISA AND DOWNTOWN AMATEPEQUE. THE SAME RED AND WHITE FLAGS ALSO SHOW HOW OUR REVOLUTIONARY FORCES ARE ADVANCING. WE SEE THESE RED AND WHITE FLAGS IN ANTIGUO CUSCATLAN. LIKEWISE, IN SANTA TECLA OUR FORCES ARE MOBILIZING AND STRENGTHENING THEIR POSITIONS.</p><p>OUR LATEST REPORT STATES THAT IN DOWNTOWN SAN SALVADOR, ONLY 10 BLOCKS FROM THE PRESIDENTIAL PALACE, HUGE BARRICADES HAVE BEEN BUILT BY THE PEOPLE AND THE FMLN, THUS CONSOLIDATING OUR POSITION. THIS LATEST REPORT CONFIRMS THIS INFORMATION, AND WE ARE GOING TO STICK A LITTLE RED FLAG ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR, FIVE, SIX, SEVEN, EIGHT, NINE, 10 BLOCKS FROM THE PRESIDENTIAL PALACE. THE LITTLE RED FLAG CAN NOW BE SEEN IN SAN JACINTO NEIGHBORHOOD.</p></body></html>