<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1089"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1089"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1089</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1089 (UNISYS)</p><p>NO CITY, NO DATE -- [INTERVIEW WITH GARCIA BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [REPORTER] YOU HAVE ALREADY HEARD THE OPINION, FOR EXAMPLE, OF THE AGRARIAN BANK, PROBABLY ALSO THAT OF ENCI [NATIONAL ENTERPRISE FOR INDUSTRIAL MARKETING], CASA, THE CORA PROJECT [WORDS INDISTINCT]. THE COCA GROWERS ISSUED A COMMUNIQUE A FEW DAYS AGO STATING THAT THEY ARE NOT AGAINST THE ERADICATION OF COCA PLANTATIONS BUT COMPLAINING ABOUT THE AGRARIAN BANK'S UNSATISFACTORY SERVICE IN GRANTING LOANS. THIS COMMUNIQUE WAS PUBLISHED BY THE MEDIA A FEW DAYS AGO.</p><p>[GARCIA] YES, WE HEARD ABOUT THIS AND ARE ANALYZING IT. BUT THE PROBLEM OF THE 200,000 HECTARES USED FOR ILLEGAL COCA GROWING BY FAR EXCEEDS THE CAPACITY OF THE AGRARIAN BANK, OF THE NATIONAL COCA LEAF ENTERPRISE [EMPRESA NACIONAL DE LA COCA], OR THE ENCI TO FINANCE FERTILIZER. THIS IS A SUBJECT THAT MUST BE DISCUSSED AT THE CONTINENTAL LEVEL. THE HUALLAGA VALLEY IS AN ENCLAVE OF THE U.S. CONSUMERS. IT IS A PERVERSE PROBLEM WITH ECONOMIC REPERCUSSIONS AND IT IS DISTORTING AND DESTROYING THE POSSIBILITY OF OUR PLANTING OTHER CROPS IN THAT AREA. THIS IS WHY WE MUST CONSIDER IT FROM A CONTINENTAL VIEWPOINT, DISCUSSING IT WITH THE COUNTRY WHERE THE PROBLEM ORIGINATES, WHERE IT IS CONSUMED. THE ENCI AND THE AGRARIAN BANK PROBLEM IS IMPORTANT, BUT IT IS VERY SMALL IN COMPARISON TO THE SERIOUSNESS OF THE OVERALL PROBLEM.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR. PRESIDENT, IS IT TRUE -- AS IT WAS SAID IN THE UNITED STATES -- THAT THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT IS REFUSING TO REPLACE THE PLANTATIONS BECAUSE IT IS NOT ECONOMICALLY CONVENIENT?</p><p>[GARCIA] NO, ACCORDING TO SOLID INFORMATION I HAVE AT HAND FROM THE STATE DEPARTMENT AND THE DEPARTMENT IN CHARGE OF DRUG TRAFFICKING, OUR GOVERNMENT HAS MADE THE GREATEST EFFORTS DURING THE PAST FEW YEARS TO ERADICATE COCA PLANTATIONS. A FEW MONTHS AGO THEY RELEASED A REPORT TO THE U.S. MEDIA FROM MAY 1989 THAT SHOWED THAT PERU HAD BROKEN ALL RECORDS FOR ERADICATING COCA IN 1988, IN KEEPING WITH ITS INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS. PERU ERADICATED MORE THAN 5,000 HECTARES OF COCA PLANTATIONS THAT YEAR, THUS STABILIZING THE OVERALL AMOUNT OF HECTARES USED FOR COCA GROWING. NOBODY, MUCH LESS THE UNITED STATES, CAN SAY THAT PERU HAS DONE NOTHING.</p><p>WE HAVE CARRIED OUT VAST OPERATIONS AND HAVE CONTINUED OUR SILENT TASK TO ERADICATE THESE PLANTATIONS, SOMETIMES WITH REGRETTABLE CONSEQUENCES. THE PEASANT WHO IS FACED WITH BARE LAND AFTER THE COCA IS UPROOTED EITHER ENGAGES IN TERRORIST ACTIVITIES OR IS CONDEMNED TO LIVE IN MISERY. THIS IS WHY WE NEED AN OVERALL ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT ALTERNATIVE THAT MUST BE PART OF A REEVALUATED LATIN AMERICAN-U.S. RELATIONSHIP.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR. PRESIDENT, THE SITUATION IS NOW THE OPPOSITE TO WHAT THE UNITED STATES IS DOING FOR [WORDS INDISTINCT] A MEETING PUT FORWARD BY THE PRESIDENTS, BECAUSE THEY GIVE $1 TO FIGHT DRUG TRAFFICKING WHILE THERE ARE $100 FOR CONSUMPTION.</p><p>[GARCIA] YOU ARE RIGHT. IT IS BELIEVED THAT THE TOTAL COST OF COCAINE SOLD ON THE U.S. STREETS IS $100 BILLION. ONLY $8 OR $9 MILLION IS BEING OFFERED TO FIGHT THE ILLEGAL PRODUCTION OF COCA AND TO REPLACE THE CROPS HERE IN PERU. WHAT THE UNITED STATES -- THE MAIN CONSUMER -- HAS BEEN OFFERING IS NOT PROPORTIONAL TO THE MAGNITUDE OF THE PROBLEM.</p><p>IF THERE WERE NO CONSUMPTION IN THE UNITED STATES, PERU WOULD NOT PRODUCE COCA LEAVES, EXCEPT FOR THE TRADITIONAL, ANCIENT USES OF PERUVIAN PEOPLE. THE PROBLEM BEGINS THERE. THE RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROVIDING MASSIVE RESOURCES SHOULD BE ASSUMED THROUGH CONCERTED DIALOGUE, NOT UNILATERAL MEASURES, BECAUSE THERE ARE HAWKS IN THE UNITED STATES. THE HAWKS ARE THE BOLDEST MILITARISTS WHO BELIEVE THAT TROOPS CAN BE SENT TO THE HUALLAGA VALLEY, THUS SOLVING THIS SERIOUS PROBLEM.</p><p>SUCH AN ACTION WOULD REPRESENT THE VIOLATION OF A NATION'S SOVEREIGNTY, AN UNWANTED UNILATERAL INTERVENTION. WE WANT A SERIOUS, RESPONSIBLE, CONCERTED, FAR-REACHING SOCIOECONOMIC POLICY. THIS IS OUR OBJECTIVE FOR CARTAGENA.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR. PRESIDENT, CHANGING THE SUBJECT, THE ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN HAS ENTERED THE FINAL STRETCH. OPPOSITION PARTIES HAVE CONSTANTLY MENTIONED YOUR NAME AND WHAT YOU HAVE SAID OR HAVE NOT SAID. WHAT IS YOUR OPINION OF THE CAMPAIGN?</p><p>[GARCIA] THOSE ARE MINOR SINS BY THE OPPOSITION. THEY ARE USING ELEMENTS THAT ARE NOT TOTALLY LEGITIMATE, BUT I WILL NOT WASTE MY TIME PASSING JUDGMENT ON MY DEAR FRIEND ENRIQUE CHIRINO SOTO OR ON ANY OF THE LAWMAKERS. I UNDERSTAND THEIR DESIRE AND THEIR NEED TO BE ELECTED. OTHERWISE WHAT WOULD THEY DO IN THE FUTURE? IF THEY WANT TO USE MY NAME, LET THEM USE IT, EVEN IF IT'S IN A NEGATIVE WAY. I HAVE LISTENED TO SO MANY THINGS OVER FOUR AND A HALF YEARS IN OFFICE THAT I AM ACTUALLY A LITTLE PLEASED BY THE FACT THAT THEY ARE DESPERATELY USING MY NAME. AT LEAST I AM HELPING THEM.</p><p>[REPORTER] SINCE THE ELECTIONS WILL BE HELD ON 8 APRIL, WHEN WILL SCHOOL CLASSES BEGIN?</p><p>[GARCIA] I SAW THAT THE EDUCATION MINISTRY ISSUED A NOTE ANNOUNCING THAT CLASSES WILL BEGIN ON 1 OR 2 APRIL. I WOULD LIKE TO PROPOSE TO THE EDUCATION MINISTER THAT CLASSES BEGIN AFTER 8 APRIL. IT WOULD BE MEANINGLESS TO BEGIN CLASSES AND TO THEN DISCONTINUE THEM IN ORDER TO OPEN THE SCHOOLS FOR THE ELECTIONS. CLASSES COULD THEREFORE BEGIN ON 10 APRIL OR WHEN THE MINISTRY DECIDES. THIS SHOULD BE AFTER 8 APRIL. WE SHOULD CONCENTRATE ALL OF OUR EFFORTS ON OPENING THE VOTING SITES. I AM ANNOUNCING THAT CLASSES WILL BEGIN AFTER 8 APRIL.</p></body></html>