<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0589"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0589"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY (EL SALVADOR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0589</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0589 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>NO CITY (EL SALVADOR), 20 OCT 89 -- [SPEECH] [CRISTIANI] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE FMLN HAS DONE NOTHING BUT INSIST ON AN IMMEDIATE ANSWER TO ALL OF THIS. LOGICALLY, I CANNOT SAY THAT THEIR'S IS A SERIOUS POSITION BECAUSE WHEN A NUMBER OF DOCUMENTS ARE PUT FORWARD, A PERIOD OF TIME IS REQUIRED TO ANALYZE THEM. HOWEVER, THE FMLN IMMEDIATELY REJECTED THE GOVERNMENT'S PROPOSAL, SAYING THAT IT WOULD NOT ACCEPT IT. WHAT DOES THIS MEAN? THAT THE FMLN NO LONGER WANTS TO TALK ABOUT THE END OF THE HOSTILITIES, BUT WANTS TO INTRODUCE NEW TOPICS AT THE SAN JOSE MEETING.</p><p>HOWEVER, DESPITE THE FMLN'S POSITION, AND ALTHOUGH THERE HAS NOT BEEN AN IN-DEPTH STUDY OF ALL THE DOCUMENTS, ONE CAN SEE AT FIRST GLANCE THAT THE PROPOSALS THEY HAVE PUT FORWARD ARE TOTALLY ABSURD. I WILL CITE AN EXAMPLE: YOU KNOW VERY WELL THAT THE FMLN HAS ADMITTED TO BEING UNABLE TO MAINTAIN A POSITION, THAT IF IT ATTEMPTS TO OCCUPY A TOWN, IN LESS THAN 24 HOURS THE ARMED FORCES DRIVE IT OUT. IT CANNOT MAINTAIN A POSITION IN THE COUNTRY. NEVERTHELESS, THE FMLN PROPOSAL ATTEMPTS TO ESTABLISH TERRITORIAL LIMITS WITH THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>WHILE IT IS TRUE THAT THE FMLN EXISTS AND IS A REALITY, I BELIEVE THAT REALITY HAS A DIMENSION, A SIZE. THE RESULTS OF THE PAST ELECTIONS, THE RESULTS OF SOMETHING OVER 3 PERCENT [WON BY THE DEMOCRATIC CONVERGENCE], INDICATE THAT THE FMLN IS A REALITY BUT A VERY SMALL ONE, AND THAT IT DOES NOT HAVE THE RIGHT TO FORCE A GOVERNMENT AND A PEOPLE TO VIOLATE THEIR CONSTITUTIONAL SYSTEM.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE FMLN HAS COME UP WITH THE TOTALLY ABSURD NOTION THAT THE GOVERNMENT MUST DISMISS THE ENTIRE [MILITARY] CLASS OF '66, THE DEFENSE MINISTER, AND THE COMMANDER OF THE AIR FORCE. THAT IS TOTALLY ABSURD, IT IS A RIDICULOUS POSITION THAT DOES NOT TRULY SHOW ANY INTENTION TO MOVEMENT TOWARD PEACE. THE FMLN PROPOSAL ALSO CALLS FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO INSTRUCT THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY TO CHANGE ALL OF THE SUPREME COURT JUSTICES. THESE, SALVADORAN FRIENDS, ARE TOTALLY ABSURD POSITIONS; ALTHOUGH THESE ARE SOMEWHAT DIFFERENT, THEIR PREVIOUS POSITIONS ARE EVER PRESENT.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT WILL NOT AT ANY TIME VIOLATE THE CONSTITUTION, IT WILL NEVER QUESTION THE SACRIFICES THAT YOU AND ALL THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE HAVE MADE DURING THESE LONG YEARS IN ORDER TO GRADUALLY STRENGTHEN THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS, WHICH MAY NOT BE PERFECT -- AND WE WOULD LIKE TO DISCUSS DIFFERENT WAYS OF PERFECTING IT -- BUT WE WILL NEVER SELL IT OR SACRIFICE IT, ESPECIALLY UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH, BY ALL MEANS, ARE ABSURD.</p><p>WHAT IS WORSE, HOWEVER, IS THAT ALONG WITH THE ATTITUDE THE FMLN HAS DISPLAYED IN COSTA RICA, ALONG WITH ITS REJECTION OF EVERYTHING THE GOVERNMENT SAYS, ITS ATTEMPTS TO MODIFY THE AGENDA WE HAD AGREED UPON IN MEXICO, ITS EFFORTS TO INTRODUCE A SERIES OF DOCUMENTS, AND ITS DEMAND FOR IMMEDIATE ANSWERS, IT HAS INITIATED A STRATEGY OF MURDERS HERE IN EL SALVADOR. EVERYONE HAS NOTICED; THEY MURDERED A REPORTER'S WIFE AND SON. WHY? BECAUSE THEY HAD A RELATIVE IN THE ARMED FORCES. THEY HAVE MURDERED AN INNOCENT YOUNG GIRL, AT A SAFE DISTANCE, IN A COWARDLY MANNER, ONLY BECAUSE SHE WAS A RELATIVE OF AN ARMED FORCES MEMBER. YESTERDAY THEY ATTEMPTED TO MURDER A FORMER MILITARY MAN WHO ALSO HAS A RELATIVE IN THE ARMED FORCES.</p><p>WHAT DOES ALL OF THIS MEAN? THAT THE FMLN INTENDS TO TALK OVER THERE [COSTA RICA] AND TO MAKE AN ENTIRE CASE OUT OF ITS DEFENDING HUMAN RIGHTS, WHILE MURDERING PEOPLE AND VIOLATING THE HUMAN RIGHTS THEY CLAIM TO BE DEFENDING, ON A DAILY BASIS. ALL OF THESE FMLN ATTITUDES FORCE US TO DIALOGUE, AND AS I SAID AT THE BEGINNING, I MUST BE COMPLETELY CLEAR AND OPEN. I MUST TELL THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE THE TRUTH.</p><p>I BELIEVE THAT SO FAR THE FMLN HAS NOT DISPLAYED THE POLITICAL RESOLVE TO ACHIEVE PEACE. FIRST OF ALL, THE FMLN DOES NOT WANT TO TALK ABOUT ENDING THE CONFLICT, IT DOES NOT WANT TO GIVE THE ENTIRE COUNTRY -- YOU AND I, MY DEAR VIEWERS -- THE OPPORTUNITY TO STOP LIVING IN THIS WHIRLPOOL OF VIOLENCE, TO LIVE IN PEACE, AND TO ALLOW THE PROCESS TO PROGRESS IN THE SEARCH FOR SOLUTIONS THAT WILL GRADUALLY GIVE US FIRM AND LASTING PEACE, WITHIN AN ATMOSPHERE OF TRANQUILITY.</p><p>THE FMLN'S ATTITUDE IS ONE OF PROVOCATION. IT WANTS TO PROVOKE THE GOVERNMENT INTO GETTING UP FROM THE DIALOGUE TABLE; IT HAS TRIED TO ANGER THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION BY INSULTING THEM. ALL IN ALL, THE FMLN IS TRYING TO FORCE THE GOVERNMENT TO DESIST. WHY ARE THEY SEEKING THIS? BECAUSE ALL THEY WANT IS A LITTLE MORE IMAGE, THE IMAGE THAT THEY HAVE COMPLETELY LOST BECAUSE THEIR SPACES HAVE BEEN CLOSED. NO ONE IN THE WORLD WILL CONTINUE TO JUSTIFY AN ARMED STRUGGLE. THAT IS A THING OF THE PAST. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>