<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1291"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1291"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CARACAS (VENEZUELA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1291</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1291 (BOEING)</p><p>CARACAS (VENEZUELA), 18 MAY 90 (DPA) -- [TEXT] GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO SAID TODAY IN CARACAS THAT HE "FIRMLY BELIEVES" THAT A SALVADORAN RIGHT-WING POLITICAL GROUP PARTICIPATED IN THE ASSASSINATION IN GUATEMALA OF SALVADORAN SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC LEADER HECTOR OQUELI AND HIS COMPANION GILDA FLORES IN LATE JANUARY.</p><p>IN A NEWS CONFERENCE TODAY AT THE AYACUCHO ROOM OF THE MIRAFLORES [PRESIDENTIAL] PALACE, CEREZO SAID HE WILL DELIVER A DETAILED REPORT ON THIS CASE TO VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ, TO SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL, AND TO THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT, TO WHICH HE REQUESTED ALL THE NECESSARY ASSISTANCE TO IDENTIFY AND DETAIN THE ASSASSINS.</p><p>REFERRING TO THE TALKS BEING HELD WITH THE VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT TO RENEGOTIATE IN CONCEPT THE OIL DEBT THAT GUATEMALA HAS WITH VENEZUELA -- WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE SAN JOSE AGREEMENT -- CEREZO SAID PRESIDENT PEREZ HAD ACCEPTED THE [RESTRUCTURING] PROPOSAL. HOWEVER, THE TERMS ARE STILL BEING DISCUSSED.</p><p>THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT REQUESTED 20 YEARS TO PAY THE DEBT, A SIX-YEAR GRACE PERIOD, AND A FOUR-YEAR [GRACE PERIOD] ON THE INTEREST. THIS PROPOSAL WILL BE PRESENTED TO THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT (WHICH ALONG WITH VENEZUELA PARTICIPATES IN THE OIL SUPPLY AGREEMENT). THE PROPOSAL WILL THEN BE PRESENTED AT THE UPCOMING CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS SUMMIT.</p><p>DURING THE NEWS CONFERENCE WITH VENEZUELAN AND FOREIGN JOURNALISTS, THE GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT, WHO ARRIVED ON 17 MAY IN VENEZUELA, SAID THAT TO CONSOLIDATE PEACE IN CENTRAL AMERICA, IT IS ESSENTIAL TO HAVE GRADUAL DEMILITARIZATION, WITH THE RESULTING REDUCTION IN WEAPONS AND LOCAL ARMIES, "WHICH SHOULD BE LEFT UNSUITED TO CARRY OUT EXTERNAL ATTACKS."</p><p>CONCERNING NICARAGUA, CEREZO SAID THE PROFESSIONALIZATION AND IDEOLOGICAL INDEPENDENCE OF THE ARMY IS FUNDAMENTAL TO REAFFIRMING ITS DEMOCRACY.</p></body></html>