<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0768"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0768"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0768</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0768 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 16 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CRISTIANI] FIRST, I WOULD LIKE TO THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE. BRIEFLY, BEFORE BEGINNING THE QUESTION AND ANSWER SESSION, WE WOULD LIKE TO SAY BEFORE THE INTERNATIONAL PRESS THAT WE CONDEMN IN THE STRONGEST TERMS THE MURDERS OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS, THEIR COOK, AND HER DAUGHTER EARLY THIS MORNING AT THE CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY, UCA. WE FEEL THAT THESE INCIDENTS FURTHER COMPLICATE OUR COUNTRY'S CRITICAL SITUATION. GROUPS OR MINDS WANT TO HAMPER THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS, ESPECIALLY THE PEACE PROCESS THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC HAS TRIED TO ADVANCE AND WILL CONTINUE TO PURSUE.</p><p>FROM THE START WE ORDERED AN INVESTIGATION BECAUSE WE BELIEVE THAT NOW THAT THE PEOPLE AND ALL OF THE COUNTRY'S INSTITUTIONS HAVE SUPPORTED THE PEACE PROCESS, IT IS NO LONGER POSSIBLE TO CONTINUE HAVING THESE SAVAGE INCIDENTS TAKE PLACE THAT ARE AIMED AT BLOCKING THIS PROCESS. WE HAVE MADE PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATIONS THAT MERELY TELL US HOW THINGS HAPPENED. WE HAVE ALREADY TAKEN SOME PROCEDURAL STEPS, SUCH AS [WORD INDISTINCT] WHERE THE IMPACT WAS FELT AND WHERE THE CRIMES WERE PERPETRATED. IN SUM, WE DID THE THINGS NORMALLY DONE AT THE START OF THESE KINDS OF INVESTIGATIONS.</p><p>THERE IS A POSSIBLE WITNESS TO THESE CRIMES, BUT, UNFORTUNATELY, HE HAS NOT BEEN LOCATED SO THAT HE CAN BE QUESTIONED BY THE INVESTIGATORS. THEY WILL CERTAINLY MAKE EVERY EFFORT TO LOCATE HIM SO THAT HE CAN PROVIDE INFORMATION THAT WILL CLARIFY THIS REGRETTABLE INCIDENT.</p><p>I SUPPOSE THE JESUITS' PROVINCIAL WILL HOST A NEWS CONFERENCE. YOU HAVE MANY OF THE DETAILS, SO WE ARE GOING TO SKIP THEM. THE ONLY THINGS WE HAVE FOUND ARE FINGERPRINTS THAT ARE BEING STUDIED AND SHELL CASINGS FROM AK-47 AND M-16 RIFLES. WE WILL SUBMIT THEM FOR BALLISTIC TESTS. WE WILL ALSO CONDUCT FORENSIC TESTS, WHICH WILL BEGIN SOON. ANOTHER IMPORTANT DETAIL IS THAT INSIDE THE BUILDING THERE WAS A ROOM OR LIBRARY WITH VIDEO CASSETTES. IT WAS LIKE A STUDIO. THIS ROOM LOOKED LIKE IT HAD BEEN BURNED AFTER BEING RANSACKED. ALL THESE THINGS AND OTHER DETAILS HAVE BEEN REPORTED AND SUBMITTED TO THE INVESTIGATORS. WE ALSO TALKED TO THE JESUITS' PROVINCIAL AND TOLD HIM THAT WE WERE DETERMINED TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THIS. WE ASKED HIM FOR HIS HELP, AND HE EXPRESSED HIS READINESS TO ASSIST IN THE INVESTIGATION. WE ARE GRATEFUL FOR THIS HELP BECAUSE IN THE PAST COOPERATION WITH THE AUTHORITIES HAS NOT ALWAYS BEEN FORTHCOMING.</p><p>WE HOPE THAT WITH THIS HELP AND WITH THE REMARKS BY MSGR ARTURO RIVERA Y DAMAS, WITH WHOM WE ALSO SPOKE THIS MORNING, THIS CASE WILL NOT BE POLITICIZED AND JUSTICE CAN BE SERVED, AVOIDING REACHING HASTY OR BIASED CONCLUSIONS BY ANY OF GROUP OR PARTY. WE THINK AND AGREE WITH MSGR RIVERA Y DAMAS THAT THIS IS HOW A SERIOUS INVESTIGATION SHOULD BE CONDUCTED. WE HOPE THAT THIS INVESTIGATION WILL LEAD US TO THE HEART OF THE MATTER. REGARDLESS OF WHO THE PERPETRATORS ARE, WE WANT PUNISHMENT FOR THOSE ATTEMPTING TO HINDER THE PROCESS OF PEACE AND DEMOCRACY IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>AND SO WE BEGIN THE QUESTIONS. PERHAPS MR SANDOVAL OR ANA MARIA MAY WANTO HELP US TO PUT SOME ORDER [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>[REPORTER] [WORDS INDISTINCT]</p><p>[CRISTIANI] FIRST, THE GOVERNMENT COMMUNIQUE REPEATS ECO [MEXICAN NEWS AGENCY] ECO REPORTS, WHICH MENTION UNKNOWN TERRORISTS. REGARDLESS OF THE SIDE THAT IS INVOLVED, THIS IS THE WAY TO DESCRIBE THESE ACTIONS. THESE ARE TERRORIST ACTIONS BECAUSE OF THEIR OVERALL CONTEXT, NO MATTER WHO [WORDS INDISTINCT]. LET ME REPEAT: WE HAVE COMMENTS BY CHURCH OFFICIALS WHO WERE GIVING VERSIONS THAT HAVE NOT BEEN CORROBORATED. WE HAVE BEEN TOLD THERE WERE SEVERAL PERSONS WEARING UNIFORMS, TO CITE THESE VERSIONS VERBATIM. I DO NOT WANT TO EXCUSE OR ACCUSE ANYONE, BUT I FEEL THAT IS NOT A CATEGORICAL PROOF. TODAY, MANY PEOPLE WHO DO NOT BELONG TO THE ARMED FORCES ARE WEARING UNIFORMS.</p><p>LET ME REPEAT: ONE CANNOT SAY ONE THING OR ANOTHER, BUT I DO THINK THIS MUST BE INVESTIGATED. IF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES ARE FOUND TO BE INVOLVED, THEY WILL FEEL THE FULL WEIGHT OF THE LAW. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>