<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0425"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0425"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0425</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0425 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 5 SEP 89 (RADIO CHILENA NETWORK) -- [EXCERPTS] POLICE SOURCES HAVE CONFIRMED THAT JECAR ANTONIO NEGHME CRISTI, 28, POLITICAL LEADER OF THE MOVEMENT OF THE REVOLUTIONARY LEFT, MIR, DIED INSTANTLY LAST NIGHT WHEN HE WAS HIT BY 12 BULLETS FIRED FROM 2 DIFFERENT WEAPONS IN AN ATTACK THAT OCCURED WHILE HE WAS WALKING HOME FROM HIS PARTY OFFICE.</p><p>SOME DOCUMENTS WERE FOUND AT THE SCENE OF THE CRIME. ONE OF THE LEAFLETS FOUND STATED: KILLED FOR BETRAYING THE REVOLUTIONARY STRUGGLE AND THE PEOPLE. YELLOW AND BOURGEOIS [AS HEARD].</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE INVESTIGATORS, NEGHME'S BODY RECEIVED 18 BULLET WOUNDS, CAUSED BY 12 DIRECT HITS. THE ATTACK WAS CARRIED OUT BY A GROUP OF ARMED INDIVIDUALS IN A MOVING CAR. NOTHING IS KNOWN ABOUT THE ATTACKERS.</p><p>CARABINEROS PERSONNEL WENT TO THE SCENE OF THE CRIME AFTER RECEIVING A TELEPHONE CALL. HOMICIDE EXPERTS FROM THE CIVILIAN POLICE ARRIVED A LITTLE LATER. THEY IMMEDIATELY CONDUCTED THE APPROPRIATE INVESTIGATIONS WHERE THE MIR SPOKESMAN WAS GUNNED DOWN. NEGHME WAS KILLED SOME 50 METERS FROM THE BERNARDO O'HIGGINS PROMENADE, AT 10 WEST BULNES STREET. THE STREET IS POORLY ILLUMINATED. IT IS BELIEVED THAT THERE WERE NO EYEWITNESSES OF THE CRIME.</p><p>ACCORDING TO POLICE SOURCES, TWO AUTOMATIC WEAPONS WERE USED; ONE A 7.65-MM AND THE OTHER A 9-MM. THE POLICE ADDED THAT NEGHME WAS NOT CARRYING A WEAPON. A BRIEFCASE FOUND NEAR HIS BODY CONTAINED SOME SPEECHES AND A BOOK ON CHILEAN HISTORY.</p></body></html>