<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0310"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0310"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0310</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0310 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 22 JUL 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE, COPREFA] [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN NATIONAL POLICE REPORTED THIS MORNING THAT UNIDENTIFIED MEN SET OFF BOMBS AT THE CENTRAL AMERICAN JOSE SIMEON CANAS UNIVERSITY, UCA, LOCATED IN SOUTHWESTERN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE REPORT, THE ATTACK TOOK PLACE AT 0200. ONE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE, ONE BUS, AND ONE ELECTRICAL TRANSFORMER WERE DAMAGED AS A RESULT OF THE EXPLOSION OF AT LEAST FOUR BOMBS THAT WENT OFF INSIDE THE UCA CAMPUS.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES HAVE ALWAYS CONDEMNED THIS KIND OF ATTACK, WHICH IS USUALLY CARRIED OUT BY CERTAIN GROUPS THAT OPPOSE PEACE. THE ARMED FORCES BELIEVE THAT SUCH ATTACKS ARE NOT THE WAY TO SOLVE THE COUNTRY'S SOCIAL AND POLITICAL PROBLEMS.</p><p>IN ADDITION, THESE VIOLENT ACTIONS ONLY CONFUSE THE PUBLIC, BECAUSE UNSCRUPULOUS PEOPLE ALWAYS BLAME THE ARMY FOR ANY SUCH ACTION, WITHOUT FIRST CONDUCTING AN IN-DEPTH INVESTIGATION OF THE ORIGIN OF THE ATTACKS.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES HAVE ALWAYS REITERATED THEIR WILLINGNESS TO ENSURE RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY, AND THE LIFE AND SAFETY OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. THEREFORE, FROM THIS VERY MOMENT, THE ARMED FORCES REJECT ANY ACCUSATION IMPLICATING THEM IN THE ATTACK AGAINST UCA, WHICH TOOK PLACE EARLY THIS MORNING.</p></body></html>