<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0182"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0182"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0182</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0182 (ADS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 20 APR 89 (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [REPORT] [CARLOS MARIO MARQUEZ] [TEXT] [BEGIN RECORDING] [MARQUEZ] REGARDING THIS MORNING'S ATTACK AGAINST SALVADORAN ATTORNEY GENERAL DR ROBERTO GARCIA ALVARADO, A GROUP CALLING ITSELF THE GERARDO BARRIOS COMMANDO UNIT TONIGHT CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACK. WE WILL NOW BROADCAST A TELEPHONE CALL THAT ONE OF OUR COLLEAGUES IN THE PRESS DEPARTMENT RECEIVED FROM A PERSON WHO IDENTIFIED HIMSELF ONLY AS A MEMBER OF THIS NEW GUERRILLA COMMANDO UNIT OR DEATH SQUAD.</p><p>[COMMANDO] OUR FORCE IS CALLED THE GERARDO BARRIOS CIVIC FORCE. WE WERE BORN MAINLY THROUGH ANTISUBVERSIVE COMBAT; HOWEVER, WE ARE AN ESSENTIALLY DEMOCRATIC FORCE, BECAUSE WE ARE OPPOSED TO... [CORRECTS HIMSELF] WE HAVE CONFRONTED THE MONOPOLIZING AND TOTALITARIAN EFFORTS OF ARENA [NATIONALILST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE]. CAN YOU HEAR ME?</p><p>[REPORTER] YES, QUITE CLEARLY.</p><p>[COMMANDO] HELLO?</p><p>[REPORTER] I CAN HEAR YOU. PLEASE CONTINUE.</p><p>[COMMANDO] WE ARE STRATEGICALLY CONFRONTING THE MANIPULATIONS OF THE WORTHLESS [VICE PRESIDENT-ELECT] MERINO AND [ARENA LEADER] D'AUBUISSON. WE GAVE THEM OUR SECOND DISSUASSIVE SIGNAL TODAY. WE HOPE THEY WILL STOP MANAGING GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS BY RAIDING, REMOVING, APPOINTING, AND BEHEADING [DEGOLLAR] PUBLIC OFFICIALS. THIS MUST BE DEALT WITH IN A DIFFERENT FASHION.</p><p>WE ALSO WANT THEM TO STOP THEIR INTRIGUES AND CONSPIRACIES WITHIN THE ARMED FORCES AND THEIR PRESSURE ON THE STATE SECURITY ORGANIZATIONS, AS WELL AS ALL GRIEVOUS ACTIONS AIMED AT DISCREDITING DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS SUCH AS THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRACY. WE ALSO WANT FRANCISCO GUERRERO TO STOP HIS FIFTH-COLUMN ACTION IN THE PCN [NATIONAL CONCILIATION PARTY] TO DIVIDE THE PARTY. YOU CANNOT TAKE SUCH ACTIONS AGAINST DEMOCRATIC FORCES. THIS IS A SECOND DISSUASSIVE SIGNAL. CAN YOU HEAR ME?</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT IS THE SECOND SIGNAL?</p><p>[COMMANDO] WELL, ONLY...</p><p>[MARQUEZ] THIS WAS THE TELEPHONE CALL RECEIVED AT RADIO CADENA YSU'S PRESS DEPARTMENT FROM THIS NEW GROUP THAT CALLS ITSELF THE GERARDO BARRIOS CIVIC FORCE, WHICH HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACK ON SALVADORAN ATTORNEY GENERAL ROBERTO GARCIA ALVARADO. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>