<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0572"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0572"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0572</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0572 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>LIMA, 12 OCT 89 (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [PRESS CONFERENCE WITH PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [TEXT] [REPORTER] THERE ARE SERIOUS DISCREPANCIES AMONG THE PREESIDENTS ATTENDING TO THIS MEETING REGARDING THE FOREIGN DEBT ISSUE. IS IT BECAUSE OF THE DIFFERENT SITUATIONS PREVAILING IN EACH COUNTRY?</p><p>[GARCIA] WE HAVE A COMMON STANCE. NO COUNTRY CAN PAY WHAT IT IS BEING ASKED TO PAY. WE ALL KNOW THIS. PEOPLE KNOW IT. THE LABOR UNIONS KNOW IT. THEREFORE, THAT IS OUR STANCE.</p><p>A FEW YEARS AGO SOME COUNTRIES MADE AN EFFORT TO PAY. NOWADAY, EVERYBODY KNOWS THEY CANNOT PAY AND THEY ARE STRUGGLING TO CHANGE THE PAYMENT CONDITIONS. THIS IS THE BASIC ISSUE THAT WE ALL SHARE.</p><p>THE FACT THAT SOME COUNTRIES RESORT TO THE BRADY PLAN, THAT OTHERS SEEK OTHER ALTERNATIVES, OR THAT OTHERS CHOOSE NOT TO PAY A DEBT THAT THEY CONSIDER TO BE UNFAIR -- AT LEAT UNTIL CONDITIONS CHANGE OR PAYMENTS ARE REDUCED -- ARE SIMPLY DIFFERENT SHADES OF A COMMON STANCE. THE IMPORTANT POINT IS THAT WE ARE GRADUALLY VERIFYING THAT NO COUNTRY IS ABLE TO PAY THE DEBT IN CONTRACTED, A DEBT THAT HAS GROWN ONLY BECAUSE OF INTERESTS.</p><p>I WILL REITERATE SOME DRAMATIC BUT REALISTIC FIGURES: 10 YEARS AGO LATIN AMERICA OWED $190 BILLION. IT PAID $289 BILLION TO DECEMBER 1988 -- THAT IS 10 YEARS -- AND IT STILL OWES $430 BILLION. IN THE PAST 10 YEARS LATIN AMERICA HAS REDUCED ITS PER CAPITA CONSUMPTION DRAMATICALLY BY 2 TO 3 PERCENT A YEAR. IN THE PAST 10 YEARS LATIN AMERICA REDUCED ITS IMPORTS, SEEKING TO SPEND LESS DOLLARS. IT INCREASED ITS EXPORTS AND DEVALUED ITS CURRENCIES TO OBTAIN DOLLARS WITH WHICH TO PAY THE DEBT.</p><p>IN THE PAST 10 YEARS LATIN AMERICA GREW ONLY 1 PERCENT PER YEAR, AND IT HAS USED THAT 1 PERCENT, PLUS AN ADDITIONAL 4-PERCENT OF ITS GNP, TO PAY THE DEBT.</p><p>THEREFORE, UNDER THESE CONDITIONS, 10 YEARS LATER WE FIND THAT WE OWE MORE, PRODUCE LESS, AND IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO PAY OUR DEBT. WE ALL KNOW THIS. IT HAS COST US 10 YEARS TO UNDERSTAND IT. HOWEVER IT IS AN EXPERIENCE THAT CONSTITUTES THE BASE FOR OUR COMMON STANCE.</p><p>[REPORTER] HAS PROGRESS BEEN MADE IN THIS FIELD SINCE THE PUNTA DEL ESTE SUMMIT?</p><p>[GARCIA] WOULD THERE HAVE BEEN A BRADY PLAN IF WE HAD NOT MET IN ACAPULCO OR IN PUNTA DEL ESTE? ONE OF JAMES BRADY'S ADVISERS PUBLISHED AN ARTICLE IN THE NEW YORK TIMES STATING THAT THE BRADY PLAN WAS ANNOUNCED IN SEPTEMBER 1985 TO PREVENT THE DISSEMINATION OF THE PERUVIAN ATTITUDE OF UNILATERALLY REDUCING ITS DEBT PAYMENTS.</p><p>WHO KNOWS IF THE ACAPULCO AND PUNTA DEL ESTE MEETINGS HAVE NOT LED THE CREDITORS TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE DEBT IS NOT WORTH ITS FACE VALUE AND THAT IT MUST BE REDUCED?</p><p>THEREFORE, THERE HAS BEEN PROGRESS. WHO KNOWS IF NEXT YEAR WE WILL BE SPEAKING OF REDUCING THE DEBT BY 50 PERCENT AND NOT JUST THE 20 PERCENT THAT WE NOW SEEK?</p><p>YOU SEE, THE FACT IS THAT NOT ONLY ARE WE UNABLE TO PAY AND THAT WE ARE NEGOTIATING TO PAY LESS, BUT THE CREDITORS ALSO KNOW THAT THEY WILL NOT BE ABLE TO COLLECT THEIR MONEY IF THEY INSIST ON THEIR CLAIMS.</p><p>THEREFORE, IF THE UNITED STATES AND THE SOVIET UNION ARE HEADING TO WARD DISARMAMENT, WHY CAN'T THERE BE A FINANCIAL DISARMAMENT BETWEEN THE RICH AND POOR? I THINK THAT ECONOMIC TRENDS WILL FOLLOW THIS LINE.</p><p>[REPORTER] PRESIDENT, WHY HASN'T PANAMA BEEN DEFINITIVELY EXPELLED FROM THIS GROUP, AND WILL THE GROUP OF EIGHT EXPAND?</p><p>[GARCIA] PANAMA AS A COUNTRY, INDEPENDENT OF ITS PAST ADMINISTRATIONS, WAS A FOUNDER MEMBER OF THE GROUP OF EIGHT. NO COUNTRY CAN BE EXPELLED. THIS IS A TERM THAT WOULD OFFEND THE CITIZENRY OF A COUNTRY. WE SIMPLY RATIFIED THE SUSPENSION OF PANAMA INDEFINITELY UNTIL PANAMA IS GOVERNED BY A DEMOCRATICALLY ELECTED GOVERNMENT. THAT WAS OUR DECISION.</p><p>[REPORTER] [PASSAGE INDISTINCT] THE OAS?</p><p>[GARCIA] WE ARE PREPARING A PROPOSAL IN WHICH WE STATE THAT THE OAS IS AN IMPORTANT FORUM OR MECHANISM FOR HEMISPHERIC DIALOGUE BUT WHICH MUST INCLUDE THE PRESENCE OF CUBA AND OTHER COUNTRIES WHICH ARE YET NOT MEMBERS.</p><p>[REPORTER] WILL THE GROUP OF EIGHT EXPAND?</p><p>[GARCIA] I HOPE SO. THIS IS THE LAST YEAR IN WHICH I WILL ATTEND A MEETING OF THE GROUP OF EIGHT, WHICH I HELPED TO CREATE. HOWEVER, I HOPE THIS GROUP WILL LEAD ANNUAL AND PERIODICAL MEETINGS OF ALL LATIN AMERICA PRESIDENTS. I HAVE MAINTAINED THIS HOPE SINCE 1985. I HOPE THAT LATIN AMERICA WILL ANNUALLY COORDINATE SOME KIND OF COLLEGIAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH TO MAKE IMPORTANT DECISIONS. THE GROUP OF EIGHT IS THE BEGINNING OF THIS, AND I AM SURE THAT IT WILL EXPAND IN THE FUTURE.</p><p>HOWEVER, AT A CONTINENTAL LEVEL, THE ISSUES CANNOT RUN AS FAST AS FOR A COUNTRY, A PEOPLE, OR A POLITICAL PROCESS. A CONTINENT REQUIRES MUCH LONGER TERMS AND WE MUST BE PATIENT. LET US GO TO ANOTHER SUBJECT NOW.</p><p>[REPORTER] HUMAN RIGHTS. TWO OF THE MAIN ISSUES IN LATIN AMERICAN LIFE ARE DEMOCRATIZATION AND HUMAN RIGHTS. PRESIDENT MENEM HAS RECENTLY PARDONED MILITARY OFFICERS AND TERRORISTS WHO WERE SERVING PRISON SENTENCES. THERE IS ALSO A CONFLICTIVE SITUATION IN PERU REGARDING SOME MILITARY OFFICERS WHO ARE BEING TRIED FOR MURDERS COMMITTED IN JAILS. ARE YOU WILLING TO PARDON THOSE MILITARY OFFICERS TO PACIFY THE SITUATION? THIS IS MY FIRST QUESTION.</p><p>SECOND, THE PERUVIAN IMAGE THROUGH THE INTERNATIONAL MEDIA IS VERY BAD BECAUSE OF A LACK OF INFORMATION. IN CONTRAST WITH ACAPULCO AND PUNTA DEL ESTE, WHICH ARE HOLIDAY RESORTS WITH MULTIMILLION DOLLAR INFRASTRUCTURES, THE CITY OF ICA REPRESENTS THOUSANDS OF LATIN AMERICAN CITIES. THEREFORE, WHAT IS YOUR ADMINISTRATION DOING TO THRUTHFULLY REPORT ON PERUVIAN REALITY? TION DOING TO THRUTHFULLY REPORT ON PERUVIAN REALITY? [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>