<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0598"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0598"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0598</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0598 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 21 OCT 89 (LA PRENSA GRAFICA) -- [TEXT] THE ARSENAL CONFISCATED IN HONDURAS CONFIRMS THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT VIOLATION OF THE TELA AGREEMENTS. [COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE] CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF SAID THE COMMUNISTS ARE NOT TO BE TRUSTED BECAUSE THEY ALWAYS TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE SERIOUSNESS AND GOODWILL OF OTHERS.</p><p>COL PONCE EXPLAINED HOW THE HONDURAN ARMED FORCES DISCOVERED THE COMING FROM NICARAGUA. HE SAID THE TRUCK WAS FIRST SENT TO COSTA RICA IN ORDER TO CONFUSE THE HONDURAN AUTHORITIES. THE CARGO SEEMED TO BE FURNITURE EARMARKED FOR A SALVADORAN BUSINESSMEN, PONCE SAID.</p><p>THE WEAPONS WERE DISCOVERED BY A HONDURAN SOLDIER AT THE BORDER AREA KNOWN AS EL ESPINO, IN CHOLUTECA. THE SOLDIER SAID THE WEAPONS WERE DISCOVERED BY ACCIDENT WHEN HE LOOSENED A WELDED SECTION OF THE TRUCK WHICH REVEALED A SECRET COMPARTMENT IN THE VEHICLE.</p><p>COL PONCE ADDED THAT WHEN THE SOLDIERS SEARCHED THE TRUCK THEY FOUND SEVERAL SOVIET MADE AK-47 RIFLES; UZI SUBMACHINEGUNS, RPG-7 ROCKET LAUNCHERS, 60 MM MORTARS, RADIO COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, PLASTIC EXPLOSIVES, FRAGMENTATION GRENADES, CARTRIDGE CLIPS, WIRE AND ELECTRIC DETONATORS, DELAYED-ACTION FUSES, AND INSTRUCTION MANUALS FOR THE WEAPONS IN URBAN COMBAT.</p><p>FINALLY, COL PONCE EMPHASIZED THAT THIS IS HOW THE NICARAGUAN COMMUNIST GOVERNMENT CONTINUES VIOLATING ITS OWN COMMITMENTS BY SENDING WEAPONS TO OUR COUNTRY SO REBELS CONTINUE KILLING OTHER SALVADORANS.</p></body></html>