<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1094"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1094"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1094</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1094 (UNISYS)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 5 FEB 90 (LA PRENSA) -- [EDITORIAL] [TEXT] DURING THE LAST FEW DAYS, THE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE FOR CONTINUISM, DANIEL ORTEGA, HAS BEEN INSISTING ON HIS INTENTION OF A QUICK RECONCILIATION WITH THE U.S. GOVERNMENT. NEVERTHELESS, HE SAYS SO AMID SLANDER AND THREATS THAT INVALIDATE THE SINCERITY OF HIS REMARKS.</p><p>FOR ORTEGA AND HIS SPOKESMEN, TO BE RESPECTED BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT AND TO MANAGE AN AGREEMENT WITH THE UNITED STATES IS NOW HIS PARTY'S "BEST GUARANTEE," THAT PARTY'S GREAT ELECTORAL OFFER. THE ONLY POSSIBLE EXPLANATION FOR THIS INCOHERENT AND CONTRADICTORY ATTITUDE IS AS A REELECTION STRATEGY, REALIZING THE POPULARITY OF THE IDEA OF NORMALIZING FRIENDLY RELATIONS WITH THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION. ORTEGA HAS NOT WANTED TO REMAIN DISTANCED FROM THAT ASPIRATION, WHICH THE PEOPLE JUDGE AS INDISPENSABLE TO IMPROVE THE CRISIS THEY ARE IN.</p><p>THE TRUTH IS THAT ANY UNNECESSARY DISTANCING OF RELATIONS BETWEEN THE U.S. GOVERNMENT AND THE SANDINISTS WAS DUE TO THE LATTER'S INITIATIVE.</p><p>EVERYONE KNOWS THE EFFORTS MADE BY BOTH MR BOWDLER AS WELL AS LAWRENCE PEZULLO TO ATTAIN CORDIAL RELATIONS WITH THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT THAT FOLLOWED SOMOZA DEBAYLE'S. THE STRONG PRESSURES ON THE DICTATOR TO RESIGN WERE DECISIVE IN HIS DEPARTURE. THE CARTER GOVERNMENT'S MASSIVE AND EARLY AID WAS DECISIVE IN STABILIZING THE REVOLUTIONARY REGIME.</p><p>THE FSLN [SANDINIST NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] NATIONAL DIRECTORATE, HOWEVER, HAD OTHER INSTRUCTIONS FROM HAVANA. AS SOON AS THEY GOT OUT OF THE AIRPLANE, THEY TOOK IT OUT ON THE "YANKEES, ENEMY OF HUMANITY," WHICH WERE ONLY SEEKING AN UNPREJUDICED RELATIONSHIP WITH THE NEW LEADERS. THAT RHETORIC WOULD HAVE BEEN LESS OBVIOUS IF IT HAD NOT BEEN THAT THE TRUE PURPOSE OF THAT CONFRONTATION CAMPAIGN WAS TO JUSTIFY ITS MISSION OF SETTING CENTRAL AMERICA ON FIRE AND THUS DISTRACTING THE UNITED STATES WITH A STRATEGY OF DESTABILIZING THE AREA, WHICH IS CONVENIENT TO USSR INTERESTS.</p><p>THE FMLN'S [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] GENERAL STAFF MOVED TO NIACARAGUA, AND THE CLANDESTINE RADIO STATION VENCEREMOS BEGAN BROADCASTING FROM MANAGUA WHILE THE WHOLE COUNTRY BECAME A SANCTUARY FOR SALVADORAN TERRORISTS AND A LOGISTICS RESUPPLY BASE.</p><p>THE U.S. ADMINISTRATION MADE ONE LAST EFFORT AT MANZANILLO, BUT DEPUTY FOREIGN MINISTER TINOCO ONLY WENT TO READ A PREPARED TEXT, USING THAT BRILLIANT OPPORTUNITY AS A CENTER STAGE FOR PROPAGANDA AND DISTURBANCE.</p><p>MENAWHILE, THE SLOGAN "IF NICARAGUA WON, SO WILL EL SALVADOR," FLOODED RADIO STATIONS, BANNERS, WATCHWORDS, GRAFFITI, AND BOASTFUL SPEECHES, WHILE THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS MADE EVERY EFFORT TO OVERTHROW THE GOVERNMENT AND THE GUATEMALAN REVOLUTIONARY BANDS DID LIKEWISE, DEVASTATING EL PETEN.</p><p>DEPUTY SECRETARY OF STATE ENDERS CAME HIMSELF TO HOLD TALKS WITH THE FSLN'S GENERAL DIRECTORATE, PROPOSING AN ARRANGEMENT THAT WOULD GUARANTEE STABILITY IN EXCHANGE FOR THEIR MESSIAH-LIKE PROJECT OF SUBVERTING THE REGION.</p><p>WHEN THESE TALKS FAILED, WHAT FOLLOWED WAS INEVITABLE AND IS REGRETTABLE.</p><p>NOW, EVEN THOUGH THE SANDINISTS MAY TRY AFTER 10 YEARS TO MAKE UP FOR LOST TIME, TRYING TO PUT THINGS RIGHT, THE RECIPE CONTINUES TO BE THE SAME: ONE, "GENUINELY FREE AND JUST" ELECTIONS IN NICARAGUA, AND TWO, THE REMOVAL OF THEIR INCITING HANDS FROM CENTRAL AMERICA. ON THESE LINES, SECRETARY OF STATE JAMES BAKER'S DECLARATION LAST WEEK WAS CLEAR AND CATEGORICAL: CONVINCING PROOF THAT THE ELECTIONS WERE HONEST, "SOMETHING VERY HARD TO DETERMINE, UNLESS ORTEGA ALLOWS CONGRESSINAL OBSERVERS," AND CONVICING PROOF THAT NICARAGUA HAS STOPPED SENDING ARMS TO EL SALVADOR. IF THE ELECTIONS ARE FRAUDULENT, SENTENCE HAS ALREADY BEEN PASSED: "THE UNITED STATES COULD MAKE NICARAGUA'S SITUATION TOUGHER." IN OTHER WORDS, ORTEGA WOULD CONFIRM HIMSELF ONLY AS A GUARANTOR OF WAR AND MISERY.</p></body></html>