<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0454"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0454"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MEXICO CITY (MEXICO)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0454</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0454 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>MEXICO CITY (MEXICO), 3 SEP 89 (THE NEWS) -- [ARTICLE] [FELIX ARCINIEGA] [TEXT] AN EMERGENCY MEETING OF ATTORNEY GENERALS AND OTHER TOP OFFICIALS FROM NINE LATIN AMERICAN NATIONS TOOK PLACE IN MEXICO CITY TO ESTABLISH A "COMMON FRONT" AND PROTECT ONE ANOTHER AGAINST TAKEOVER EFFORTS BY DISPLACED DRUG BARONS AND THEIR ARMED MAFIAS.</p><p>NAMED THE SEVENTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE FOR DRUG CONTROL, IT WAS HELD AUG 29-31 HERE, AND REPRESENTATIVES PRAISED COLOMBIAN AUTHORITIES FOR THEIR IMMEDIATE REPRISAL AGAINST DRUG LORDS AND THEIR MAFIAS.</p><p>ARGENTINA, CHILE, COLOMBIA, EL SALVADOR, GUATEMALA PERU, COSTA RICA, BRAZIL AND OTHERS ALL EXPRESSED THE SAME APPREHENSION, INVASION BY DISPLACED COLOMBIAN DRUG DEALERS.</p><p>THE UNITED STATES, ATTENDING UNOFFICIALLY, REPORTEDLY DID NOT SAY MUCH BUT IMMEDIATELY DISPATCHED 65 MILLION DOLLARS WORTH OF SOPHISTICATED MILITARY HARDWARE DELIVERED FRIDAY TO COLOMBIA BY TWO ENORMOUS C-130'S. HERE, MAFIA WARLORDS OPENLY THREATENED TO CARRY OUT THEIR TERRORIST BOMBINGS AND KILLINGS "IN BROAD DAYLIGHT TO SHOW WE CANNOT BE STOPPED."</p><p>MEXICAN ATTORNEY GENERAL ENRIQUE ALVAREZ DEL CASTILLO CONGRATULATED THOSE IN ATTENDANCE AND OFFERED THE EXPERIENCE MEXICO HAD ACQUIRED DURING 10 YEARS OF AN AGGRESSIVE DRUG WAR.</p><p>BESIDES MORAL SUPPORT, MEXICO UNDERLINED THE NEED FOR COORDINATED EFFORTS IN LAWS AND ACTION. FIRST, THAT COURTS HAND DOWN STIFF SENTENCES; SECOND, THAT NO BAIL BE GRANTED IN DRUG TRIALS; THIRD, THAT ALL PROPERTY DERIVED FROM DRUG PROFITS BE CONFISCATED AND LEGALLY USED TO DEFRAY COSTS OF COMBATTING DRUG TRAFFIC.</p><p>IN THE FINAL RESOLUTION, THE NINE NATIONS ACCEPTED TO EXCHANGE INFORMATION, COORDINATE ALL ACTIVITIES JOINTLY - BUT CARRY THEM OUT SEPARATELY BECAUSE OF THE DELICATE ISSUE OF NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY - COMPLETE COOPERATION IN ALL AREAS AND TO REGARD THE DRUG EFFORT AS AN INTERNATIONAL PROBLEM WHERE PRODUCER, DEALER AND USER MUST ALL BE COMBATTED.</p><p>ON FRIDAY, BRAZIL AND COLOMBIA AGREED TO JOINTLY PROTECTING THEIR BORDERS TO KEEP DRUG DEALERS OUT AND AWAY FROM THOSE THAT HAVE BECOME A SERIOUS PROBLEM IN BRAZIL.</p><p>THIS COOPERATION IS BEING SOUGHT FOR ALL CASES WHERE THERE MAY BE DANGER. AND SECRETLY, EVERY NATION IS FEARFUL OF WHAT A CONCENTRATED ATTACK BY THE NARCOTIC MAFIA AND THE TERRORISM, POLITICAL AND DE FACTO, DRUG LORDS CAN BUY WITH THEIR ENORMOUS WEALTH.</p></body></html>