<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0692"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0692"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0692</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0692 (GE)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 12 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ORTEGA] [EXCERPT] [PASSAGE OMITTED] ....THE SALVADORAN [WORD INDISTINCT] IS DOING THE SAME THING SOMOZA DID WITH THE CITIES OF NICARAGUA, AND THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT IS CONCERNED OVER THIS, OVER A MASSACRE, A GENOCIDE GAINST THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. WHAT IS REQUIRED IS A PEACEFUL SOLUTION OF THAT CONFLICT, NOT THE BOMBING OF SALVADORAN CITIES. WHEN THOSE AIRPLANES BOMB CITIES THEY ARE REALLY BOMBING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. HOW CAN THEY KNOW WHO THE BOMBS, ROCKETS, OR SHOTS WILL HIT? IT IS A TRULY DANGEROUS SITUATION.</p><p>I URGE THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY -- JUST AS IT BECOMES CONCERNED, CARRIES OUT CAMPAIGNS, AND MAKES STATEMENTS WHEN THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT ADOPTS HARSH MEASURES -- WHEN THESE EVENTS ARE TAKING PLACE IN EL SALVADOR TO DRAW ATTENTION TO THE SITUATION. THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY MUST SPEAK OUT AND PREVENT THE BOMBING OF SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND CITIES.</p><p>THIS MORNING, BROTHERS OF NAGOROTE, I HAVE WALKED THESE STREETS WITH A GREAT DEAL OF ENTHUSIASM, WARMTH, AND HAPPINESS. YOU KNOW PERFECTLY WELL THAT THE BATTLE WE ARE WAGING IN THE ELECTORAL FIELD IS THE SAME BATTLE WE HAVE WAGED IN THE MILITARY FIELD WITH THE CONTRAS, THE ONLY DIFFERENCE BEING THAT THIS BATTLE IS IN THE ELECTORAL FIELD. THE ELECTIONS WILL BE BETWEEN NICARAGUA AND THE UNITED STATES, BETWEEN NICARAGUA'S INDEPENDENCE AND THE UNITED STATES, WHICH DOES NOT WANT NICARAGUA TO BE INDEPENDENT.</p><p>WHO, THEN, WILL WE VOTE FOR ON 25 NOVEMBER? [CROWD RESPONSE UNMONITORABLE] WE MUST VOTE FOR NICARAGUA, AND WE MUST INVITE ALL NICARAGUANS TO VOTE FOR NICARAGUA, EVEN IF THOSE NICARAGUANS ARE NOT MEMBERS OF THE FSLN [SANDINIST NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT -], EVEN IF THOSE NICARAGUANS WERE MEMBERS OF OTHER PARTIES, EVEN IF THOSE NICARAGUANS WERE INVOLVED WITH SOMOZISM IN THE PAST. IT IS A MATTER OF VOTING FOR NICARAGUA, AGAINST THE IMPERIALIST POLICY; IT IS A MATTER OF CHOOSING BETWEEN NICARAGUA AND THE IMPERIALIST POWER; AND NICARAGUA IS REPRESENTED BY THE FSLN. NO ONE MUST BE MISTAKEN ABOUT THIS. [APPLAUSE].</p><p>THE FSLN IS THE ONLY FORCE THAT CAN GUARANTEE STABILITY FOR ALL THE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC SECTORS OF THIS COUNTRY: LARGE- SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE PRODUCERS, MERCHANTS, INDUSTRIALISTS, EVERYONE. ONLY THE FSLN CAN GUARANTEE THIS BECAUSE THE UNO [NATIONAL OPPOSITION UNITY] IS SIMPLY A MESS OF PEOPLE, A BADLY MADE AND WRAPPED TAMALE. THAT IS WHAT UNO IS, AND NO ONE CAN EAT IT. [APPLAUSE, SHOUTS]</p><p>YOU LIKE BASEBALL, RIGHT? YOU LIKE BASEBALL. WHEN THE BATTER IS UP, THE PITCHER THROWS AND THE BATTER HITS THE BALL, BUT THE BALL VEERS LEFT, WHAT IS THAT? [CROWD RESPONDS: FOUL TO THE LEFT]. IF HE BATS AGAIN AND THE BALL GOES THE OTHER WAY, WHAT IS THAT? [CROWD RESPONDS: FOUL TO THE RIGHT]. AND HE HITS IT THROUGH THE CENTER, WAY UP THERE .... [CROWD RESPONDS: HOME RUN] IT IS A HOMERUN. THEREFORE, ONE SHOULD BAT NEITHER TO THE LEFT NOR TO THE RIGHT BUT THROUGH THE CENTER; 25 IN THE FIFTH [AS HEARD]. YOU MUST HIT A HOME RUN, 25 IN THE FIFTH. THAT IS WHERE THE FSLN IS, IN THE FIFTH. THAT IS WHERE THE VOTE MUST BE CAST, AND THAT IS WHERE SILVIO MAYORGA AND ALL THE PEOPLE OF NAGAROTE WILL CAST THEIR VOTES FOR THE FSLN ON 25 [FEBRUARY 1990].</p></body></html>