<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0883"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0883"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0883</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0883 (GTE)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 27 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [EXCERPTS] THE RADIO MINERIA SANTIAGO STAFF CONTINUES TO EVALUATE THE SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE CAUSED BY A TERRORIST ATTACK AT THE OFFICES OF RADIO MINERIA.</p><p>ERNANI VALDA, THE DIRECTOR OF THE RADIO STATION, HAS REPORTED THAT SO FAR THE DAMAGE IS ESTIMATED AT 2.5 MILLION PESOS.</p><p>THE BOMB WAS PLACED IN THE OFFICE OF POLITICAL COMMENTATOR GERMAN GAMONAL, WHO IS ALSO THE PRESS DIRECTOR. FIVE PEOPLE WERE WORKING AT THE OFFICES WHEN THE EXPLOSION OCCURRED; ONE OF THEM WAS INJURED.</p><p>WE SPOKE WITH REPORTER HERMOGENES CARRILLO, WHO ARRIVED AT THE RADIO STATION OFFICES AFTER THE ATTACK.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CARRILLO] ONE PERSON SUFFERED MINOR INJURIES AND THE OFFICES OF RADIO MINERIA WERE SUBSTANTIALLY DAMAGED DURING THE BOMB ATTACK HERE AT THE INTERSECTION OF PROVIDENCIA AND TOBALABA STREETS THIS MORNING AT 0510. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>THE RADIO STATION WAS OFF THE AIR FOR 45 MINUTES, DURING WHICH TIME CARABINEROS PERSONNEL INSPECTED THE SITE TO CONFIRM THAT THERE WERE NO OTHER BOMBS.</p><p>GOPE [SPECIAL OPERATIONS GROUP] PERSONNEL ARRIVED LATER. ACCORDING TO THEIR SPECIALIZED PERSONNEL THE BOMB CONTAINED TRONEX [EXPANSION UNKNOWN], AND IT HAD BEEN PLACED BY ONE OF THE WINDOWS ON PROVIDENCIA STREET.</p><p>AT LEAST TWO OR THREE PEOPLE WERE INVOLVED IN THE ATTACK. THEY SOMEHOW CLIMBED TO THE SECOND FLOOR, PLACED THE BOMB, LIT THE FUSE, AND FLED.</p><p>NO WARNING WAS RECEIVED NOR HAS ANY SUBVERSIVE MOVEMENT CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS ATTACK SO FAR.</p><p>WE HAVE RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALLS FROM OUR LISTENERS ACROSS THE COUNTRY. WE HAVE ALSO RECEIVED IMPORTANT POLITICAL PERSONALITIES, INCLUDING PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE HERNAN BUCHI AND INTERIOR MINISTER CARLOS CACERES.</p><p>AMONG OTHERS, WE HAVE RECEIVED A CALL FROM OSORNO FROM [PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE] FRANCISCO JAVIER ERRAZURIZ AND ANOTHER CALL FROM SANTIAGO FROM RICARDO LAGOS.</p><p>THIS IS ALL WE CAN REPORT FOR NOW. THE COST HAS NOT YET BEEN ESTIMATED, BUT IT WILL BE SUBSTANTIAL.</p><p>THIS WAS A REPORT BY RADIO MINERIA FOR RADIO NACIONAL DE CHILE. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>