<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0151"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0151"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0151</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0151 (BELLCORE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 21 MAR 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] THE DAY OF FIGHTING THAT RESULTED IN ENORMOUS ABSTENTION DURING THE 19 MARCH ELECTIONS REPRESENTED AN OVERWHELMING VICTORY FOR THE PEOPLE. THIS WAS A FIGHTER'S WAY OF REPUDIATING THE WAR ELECTIONS THAT WERE HELD AFTER THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] PEACE PROPOSAL WAS BLOCKED. IT ALSO REPRESENTED A DEFEAT FOR THE REAGAN ADMINISTRATION, WHICH WAS BENT ON CARRYING OUT A DEADLY WAR AGAINST OUR PEOPLE DISGUISED AS A HYPOCRITICAL CENTRIST AND FALSELY DEMOCRATIC CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT.</p><p>WE STRUGGLE FOR A JUST AND NEGOTIATED PEACE WITH GENUINE DEMOCRACY, SOCIAL JUSTICE, AND NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY, AND WE GAVE A WORLD-RESOUNDING BLOW TO THE ENEMIES OF PEACE. THE THOUSANDS OF FMLN FIGHTERS WHO FOUGHT THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY, CITIES AND INTERIOR, ENCOURAGED BY AN UNPRECEDENTED INTENSITY AND SIMULTANEITY; THE TENS OF THOUSANDS OF UNION MEMBERS, PEASANTS, STUDENTS, TEACHERS, DISPLACED PERSONS, UNEMPLOYED PERSONS, GOVERNMENT AND MUNICIPAL WORKERS, MOTHERS AND FAMILY MEMBERS OF POLITICAL PRISONERS AND MISSING PERSONS, MEMBERS OF COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS, BELIEVERS AND REPRESENTATIVES OF ALL THE CHURCHES WHO TOOK TO THE STREET TO DEMAND THAT THE FMLN PEACE PROPOSAL BE ACCEPTED AND WHO LATER REPUDIATED THE 19 MARCH WARMONGERING ELECTIONS; THE HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF CITIZENS, MORE THAN 1 MILLION PERSONS WITH VALID VOTING CARDS, WHO REFUSED TO VOTE, AND THE MORE THAN 200,000 WHO CAST A VOID OR BLANK BALLOT--SOMETHING THE CENTRAL ELECTORAL COUNCIL, THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE [ARENA], AND THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY [PDC] ARE TRYING TO HIDE; THE TENS OF THOUSANDS WHO VOTED FOR THE DEMOCRATIC CONVERGENCE; AND THE HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS WHO WERE NOT INTERESTED IN GETTING THEIR VOTING CARD THAT WOULD ALLOW THEM TO PARTICIPATE IN THESE DISCREDITED ELECTIONS ARE THE IMMENSE MAJORITY OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WHO SAID NO TO THE COUNTERINSURGENCY WAR AND YES TO A JUST POLITICAL AND NEGOTIATED SOLUTION TO THE NATIONAL CONFLICT. YES TO A REAL DEMOCRACY; NO TO THE TRADITIONAL LIE OF A VOTE THAT ONLY SERVES TO JUSTIFY AND FACILITATE U.S. MILITARY AID, WHICH PROMOTES THE CONTINUATION OF THE WAR AND WORSENS THE SERIOUS PROBLEMS OF POVERTY, MISERY, UNEMPLOYMENT, AND REPRESSION BEING EXPERIENCED BY OUR PEOPLE.</p><p>THE 19 MARCH ELECTIONS WERE HELD, BUT HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SALVADORANS WHO LIVE ABROAD WERE KEPT FROM VOTING. MANY OF THESE PEOPLE FLED THE COUNTRY BECAUSE THEY WERE BEING PERSECUTED OR BECAUSE THE ARMED FORCES FORCED THEM TO LEAVE THEIR HOMES THROUGH THEIR BOMBINGS AND OTHER ATROCITIES. THEY ARE ACTIVE SALVADORANS. THANKS TO THEIR WORK, HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF OTHER SALVADORANS, MEMBERS OF THEIR FAMILIES WHO HAVE REMAINED IN EL SALVADOR, CAN SURVIVE. HOWEVER, THESE PEOPLE WERE DENIED THEIR RIGHT TO VOTE, A RIGHT THE FMLN PROPOSAL TO TURN THE ELECTIONS INTO A MECHANISM FOR PEACE WOULD HAVE GRANTED THEM.</p><p>MR ALFREDO CRISTIANI HAS DECLARED HIMSELF THE WINNER IN AN ELECTION THAT SAW THE LARGEST ABSTENTION IN THESE YEARS OF WAR. MORE THAN 60 PERCENT OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE DID NOT VOTE OR CAST VOID AND BLANK VOTES. THE VOTES CRISTIANI GOT DO NOT TOTAL 20 PERCENT OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. MANY OF THOSE WHO VOTED FOR CRISTIANI WERE DECEIVED BY ARENA'S PROPAGANDA THAT PROMISED EMPLOYMENT, HOUSING, EDUCATION, SCHOOLS, PUBLIC HEALTH, ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND PROSPERITY, ETC. CRISTIANI AND ARENA KNOW THEY ARE GETTING A COUNTRY DROWNING IN AN ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CRISIS, WITH A GROWING REVOLUTIONARY WAR, AND THEY WILL NOT BE ABLE TO KEEP THOSE PROMISES. NO ONE CAN DO ANYTHING WITHOUT FIRST ACHIEVING A JUST PEACE. FOR ALL THESE REASONS, ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S ELECTION CANNOT BE CONSIDERED EITHER MORALLY OR POLITICALLY LEGITIMATE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>