<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0317"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0317"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0317</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0317 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 1 AUG 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO SAID TODAY THAT DANILO BARILLAS, FORMER AMBASSADOR AND LEADER OF THE RULING CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY [PDC], WAS THE "VICTIM OF THE POLITICAL INTOLERANCE OF GROUPS WHO DO NOT WANT TO LIVE IN DEMOCRACY."</p><p>IN STATEMENTS TO NEWSMEN, CEREZO SAID THAT THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR KILLING BARILLAS "ARE EXTREME RIGHTIST GROUPS SEEKING TO DESTABILIZE THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS BEGUN ON 14 JANUARY 1986," AFTER 2 DECADES OF MILITARY REGIMES.</p><p>POLICE SOURCES REPORTED THAT BARILLAS, AMBASSADOR TO SPAIN DURING THE FIRST 2 YEARS OF CEREZO'S ADMINISTRATION, WHICH BEGAN IN 1986, WAS GUNNED DOWN BY UNIDENTIFIED PERSONS AS HE WAS RETURNING TO HIS HOME IN THE SOUTHERN PART OF THE CAPITAL AFTER TAKING ONE OF HIS DAUGHTERS TO A NEARBY BUS STOP.</p><p>OFFICIAL REPORTS INDICATE THAT THE ATTACKERS, WHO WERE TRAVELING IN TWO VEHICLES WITH TINTED WINDOWS, HAD BEEN WAITING FOR BARILLAS SINCE VERY EARLY IN THE MORNING. DE POLITICAL LEADER MANAGED TO AVOID THE FIRST SHOTS THAT WERE FIRED AT HIM AND TOOK REFUGE UNDER A PARKED CAR, WHERE THE ASSAILANTS PUMPED 6 ROUNDS INTO HIM.</p><p>BARILLAS, 50, WAS SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE PDC FROM 1970 TO 1974.</p><p>PRESIDENT CEREZO AND ALFONSO CABRERA, PDC SECRETARY AND PRESIDENTIAL HOPEFUL FOR THAT PARTY, WENT TO BARILLAS' HOME WHERE THEY VEHEMENTLY CONDEMNED THE CRIME.</p><p>CABRERA TERMED THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE KILLING "COWARDS," AND SAID THAT THE CRIME IS PART OF A TERRORIST WAVE THAT HAS GRIPPED GUATEMALA FOR OVER 15 DAYS.</p><p>BARILLAS WAS A MEMBER OF THE GUATEMALAN DELEGATION THAT PARTICIPATED IN A MEETING WITH LEADERS OF THE GUATEMALAN NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY UNITY (URNG) HELD IN MADRID, SPAIN, IN OCTOBER 1987, WHEN HE WAS AMBASSADOR TO THAT EUROPEAN COUNTRY.</p><p>AFTER LEAVING THAT POST LAST YEAR HE WAS APPOINTED BY PRESIDENT CEREZO AS DIRECTOR OF THE SO-CALLED "METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT COUNCILS," WHICH PROVIDE REFUGE FOR PEASANTS AFFECTED BY THE COUNTERINSURGENCY STRUGGLE.</p></body></html>