<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0758"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0758"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0758</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0758 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 16 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION, ATTENTION, THE ARMED FORCES' COUNTERATTACK ON OUR POSITIONS IN ZACAMIL HAS FAILED. ATTENTION, AT THIS TIME RADIO VENCEREMOS PROCLAIMS THAT THE NEW ARMED FORCES' COUNTEROFFENSIVE TO ATTACK OUR POSITIONS IN ZACAMIL HAS FAILED.</p><p>A REPORT SENT BY COMRADES COMMANDER CLAUDIO RABINDRANATH ARMIJO AND CARLOS ARGUETA INDICATE THAT THE ENEMY ATTEMPT TO TAKE OUR POSITIONS IN ZACAMIL FAILED.</p><p>AT 0400 TODAY, AN IMPORTANT BATTLE WAS FOUGHT IN ZACAMIL. COMBINED TROOPS OF THE BELLOSO AND BRACAMONTE BATTALIONS, AND A CAVALRY UNIT, WITH THE SUPPORT OF ONE HELICOPTER AND ONE OR TWO LIGHT PLANES, TRIED TO ATTACK OUR FORTIFIED POSITIONS. HOWEVER, THIS ATTEMPT ENDED IN A RESOUNDING FAILURE. THE ENEMY SUSTAINED 45 CASUALTIES IN THE ATTACK, WHICH LASTED FROM 0400 UNTIL 1100. THESE CASUALTIES, WHICH HAVE BEEN CONFIRMED, INCLUDED A SECTION CHIEF. IN ADDITION, OUR FORCES DESTROYED ONE ARMORED VEHICLE AND DAMAGED ANOTHER. WE ALSO HAVE A BELLOSO BATTALION PATROL TRAPPED IN ONE OF THE BUILDINGS. SOME MEMBERS OF THIS PATROL WERE WOUNDED, OTHERS WERE KILLED IN ACTION.</p><p>IN ITS DESPERATION, THE ARMY HAS USED THE AIR FORCE FOR ITS INDISCRIMINATE ATTACKS.</p><p>THIS IS A LAST-MINUTE REPORT WE HAVE FROM SAN SALVADOR: THE ENEMY COUNTERATTACK FAILED IN ZACAMIL. BY NOON, OUR FORCES HAD HAD CONTROLLED THIS ATTACK. THE SITUATION IN SAN SALVADOR IS BECOMING MORE CRITICAL FOR THE GENERAL STAFF WITH THE FALL OF THE CUSCATANCINGO GARRISON, WHERE OUR FORCES SEIZED THOUSANDS OF ITEMS OF MILITARY SUPPLIES AND AMMUNITION.</p></body></html>