<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0469"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0469"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0469</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0469 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 SEP 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, FMLN] [TEXT] SINCE A MINE IS A WEAPON OF A MILITARY NATURE AND SINCE ITS USE HAS INCREASED IN THE PAST FEW YEARS THROUGHOUT VARIOUS UNPOPULATED AREAS OF THE COUNTRY WHERE MINE FIELDS HAVE BEEN PLANTED, THE SWEEPING OF THIS TYPE OF WEAPON WILL NECESSARILY HAVE TO BE DONE GRADUALLY FOR TECHNICAL AND OPERATIONAL REASONS. THEREFORE, THE MEASURES TO BE ADOPTED TO SUSPEND THEIR USE WILL BE:</p><p>1. END THE MANUFACTURING OF BOOBY TRAPS.</p><p>2. END TO THE PLANTING OF NEW MINE FIELDS.</p><p>3. IMMEDIATE REMOVAL OF ALL MINES PLANTED IN AREAS OF HIGH RISK FOR THE CIVILIAN POPULATION AND MARKING OF THOSE AREAS THAT, FOR TECHNICAL REASONS -- LOSS OF MAP OF THE MINED AREAS -- CANNOT BE SWEPT IMMEDIATELY.</p><p>4. GRADUAL SWEEPING OF THE MINE FIELDS LOCATED IN AREAS OF LOW RISK FOR THE CIVILIAN POPULATION AND MARKING OF SITES WHERE, FOR TECHNICAL REASONS, THE MINES CANNOT BE REMOVED.</p><p>5. THIS ORDER DOES NOT INCLUDE THE CLAYMORE MINES USED IN THE AMBUSH OF SOLDIERS.</p><p>WE WILL COORDINATE THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THESE MEASURES WITH HUMANITARIAN AID ORGANIZATIONS AND THE PEOPLE THEMSELVES.</p><p>LIKEWISE, WE EXPECT THE ARMY TO SWEEP THE MINE FIELDS THAT SURROUND THE GARRISONS AND FIXED MILITARY POSTS LOCATED IN HEAVILY POPULATED AREAS. THESE MINES ARE CONSTANTLY HARMING THE PEOPLE OR THEIR DOMESTIC ANIMALS.</p><p>LIKEWISE, THE ARMY MUST CEASE ALL BOMBING AND SHELLING OF CIVILIAN TARGETS.</p><p>FMLN GENERAL COMMAND</p><p>EL SALVADOR, 11 SEPTEMBER 1989</p></body></html>