<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0279"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0279"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0279</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0279 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 4 JUL 89 (RUDE PRAVO) -- [ARTICLE] [MANUEL CEPEDA, MEMBER OF THE COLOMBIAN COMMUNIST PARTY CENTRAL COMMITTEE POLITBURO] [TEXT] RECENTLY NEW PHENOMENA HAVE MADE THEIR WAY ONTO THE COLOMBIAN POLITICAL SCENE. THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS HAS BEEN FORCED TO ADOPT MEASURES AGAINST ULTRA RIGHT-WING PARAMILITARY ORGANIZATIONS AND DIFFERENCES ARE BEGINNING TO APPEAR IN THE GOVERNMENT AND IN THE ARMED FORCES.</p><p>THESE ARGUMENTS ARE TAKING PLACE IN CONNECTION WITH DISCUSSIONS PRIOR TO THE ELECTIONS WHICH ARE EXPECTED TO TAKE PLACE IN COLOMBIA IN 1990. AFTER THE COLOMBIAN COMMUNIST PARTY [CCP] HAD DEMANDED FROM THE GOVERNMENT SECURE GUARANTEES THAT IT CAN PARTICIPATE IN THEM, IT ANNOUNCED THAT IT WILL BECOME INVOLVED IN THE ELECTORAL PROCESS AND NOW IT IS STRIVING TO CREATE A BROAD DEMOCRATIC COALITION.</p><p>THE APPROACHING ELECTIONS AS WELL AS THE WIDESPREAD INTERNATIONAL CONDEMNATION OF THE "DIRTY WAR" IN COLOMBIA FORCED THE GOVERNMENT TO TAKE MORE DECISIVE STEPS IN A NUMBER OF SPHERES. THE MOST IMPORTANT OF THESE ARE:</p><p>-- ISSUING PRESIDENTIALLY PROCLAIMED DECREES AGAINST HIRED ASSASSINS AND CREATING AN ELITE MILITARY FORCE FOR THE STRUGGLE AGAINST THEM; ORGANIZING A STRUGGLE AGAINST ULTRA RIGHT-WING PARAMILITARY GROUPS AND INCREASING PRISON SENTENCES UP TO 20-30 YEARS FOR SOLDIERS AND CIVILIANS WHO ARE MEMBERS OF THEM;</p><p>-- CONDUCTING A DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE LEFTIST COALITION PATRIOTIC UNION (WHICH THE CCP IS A MEMBER OF) AND THE SUPREME COMMANDER OF THE ARMY WITH THE PARTICIPATION OF THE MINISTER OF DEFENSE;</p><p>-- CONDUCTING A PURGE IN THE ARMY DIRECTED AGAINST THE OFFICERS WHO ARE ASSOCIATED WITH WITH GROUPS OF HIRED ASSASSINS.</p><p>THE REASON FOR ACCELERATING THESE MEASURES WAS THE ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT AGAINST THE HEAD OF THE SECRET POLICE (DAS), GENERAL MIGUEL MAZA MARQUEZ, CARRIED OUT ON 30 MAY BY PARAMILITARY GROUPS WHICH ARE CONTROLLED BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS. A VEHICLE FILLED WITH 100 KG OF DYNAMITE WAS USED TO TRY TO ASSASSINATE THE HEAD OF STATE SECURITY. THE GENERAL ESCAPED WITHOUT INJURY BUT DURING THE ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT 7 PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND MORE THAN 50 WERE WOUNDED. BECAUSE OF THIS ACT DIFFERENCES IN THE ARMED FORCES AND IN THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT FURTHER INTENSIFIED.</p><p>MAZA MARQUEZ HAS BEEN THE SWORN ENEMY OF THE MAFIA AND THE OBJECT OF THEIR THREATS SINCE HE REVEALED THAT THE GANGS WHICH CARRY OUT ASSASSINATION ATTEMPTS AGAINST THE CCP AND THE PATRIOTIC UNION ARE TRAINED MERCENARIES FROM THE UNITED STATES, ISRAEL, THE FRG, AND GREAT BRITAIN. AFTER ESCAPING FROM AN ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT ON 3 MAY, GENERAL MAZA MARQUEZ SENT A LETTER TO THE STATE PROSECUTOR. IN IT HE SAID THAT CERTAIN GROUPS IN THE ARMY KNEW ABOUT THE ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT WHICH HAD BEEN PREPARED AGAINST HIM.</p><p>DURING THE SAME PERIOD CAPTAIN WANUMEN [NAME AS PUBLISHED] WAS IMPRISONED; HE HAD SECRET DOCUMENTS FROM THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS, THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL, THE U.S. EMBASSY IN BOGOTA, THE DAS, AND THE AMERICAN CIA WHICH LIST HIGHLY PLACED INDIVIDUALS IN THE GOVERNMENT WHO WORK AS "SPIES" FOR THE BENEFIT OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS FROM THE MEDELLIN AND CALI CARTELS. ALTHOUGH PRESIDENT BARCO VARGAS DENIED THE AUTHENTICITY OF THE DOCUMENTS, REPORTS ARE GENERALLY DISSEMINATED THAT THE RULING ELITE HAS BEEN INFILTRATED WITH MAFIA AGENTS.</p><p>IN THIS SITUATION SPACE OPENS UP FOR THE CCP'S PROPOSAL TO INTRODUCE PEACE TO THE COUNTRY BY WAY OF A DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND ALL PARTISAN GROUPS, NOT JUST WITH THE M-19 MOVEMENT, AS THE GOVERNMENT HAS PRACTICED TO DATE. ALTHOUGH THE SITUATION IN COLOMBIA IS STILL SERIOUS, THERE ARE DEFINITE SIGNS OF A TURNAROUND FOR THE BETTER.</p></body></html>