<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0110"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0110"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0110</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0110 (BELLCORE)</p><p>LIMA, 9 MAR 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] DURING A NEWS CONFERENCE ATTENDED BY FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS, PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA SAID HERE TODAY THAT HE SUPPORTS THE CONSTRUCTION "OF NOT ONE BUT FIVE" INTERNATIONAL HIGHWAYS IN THE AMAZONIAN REGION.</p><p>ACCORDING TO PRESS REPORTS, THE UNITED STATES PRESSURED JAPAN NOT TO PROVIDE FINANCING FOR THE BRAZILIAN-PERUVIAN PROJECT.</p><p>GARCIA SAID HE WAS NOT AWARE THAT U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH HAD HELD TALKS WITH THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT AT HIROHITO'S FUNERAL TO PREVENT THE FINANCING OF THE HIGHWAY.</p><p>SOME REPORTS SAID THAT BUSH HAD HELD TALKS WITH JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER NOBORU TAKESHITA ON THE NEED TO PRESERVE THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT, ESPECIALLY THE AMAZON REGION, WHICH IS CONSIDERED THE "WORLD'S LUNGS."</p><p>THE PERUVIAN PRESIDENT SAID: "PRESIDENT BUSH IS A POLITICIAN WITH WIDE EXPERIENCE. I DO NOT BELIEVE HE SAID SUCH A THING. IF HE DID SAY IT, IT WOULD BE VERY SERIOUS, BECAUSE HE WOULD BE INTERVENING IN OUR DOMESTIC AFFAIRS."</p><p>BRAZILIAN PRESIDENT JOSE SARNEY RECENTLY SAID THAT THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL HIGHWAY IS "A MATTER OF NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY."</p><p>BRAZIL AND PERU ARE SPONSORING A PROJECT TO BUILD A HIGHWAY THROUGH THE AMAZON REGION TO JOIN THE BRAZILIAN NORTHWESTERN STATE OF ACRE AND THE PACIFIC OCEAN. BOTH COUNTRIES HAVE ASKED FOR JAPAN'S FINANCIAL SUPPORT FOR THE PROJECT.</p><p>IN PRACTICE, THE OBJECTIVE IS TO ESTABLISH A LAND CORRIDOR BETWEEN THE ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC OCEANS--AN OLD PROJECT OF THE BRAZILIAN MILITARY GEOSTRATEGISTS.</p><p>THE BRAZILIAN MILITARY MINISTERS SUPPORTED SARNEY'S POSITION BY ANNOUNCING THAT THEY WILL NOT ACCEPT "ANY TYPE OF FOREIGN FOREIGN INTERFERENCE IN THE AMAZON REGION" AND THAT THEY REJECTED AS "UNACCEPTABLE" THE ATTEMPTS TO LINK THE FOREIGN DEBT WITH INVESTMENTS TO PRESERVE THE AMAZON FOREST.</p><p>GARCIA INDICATED THAT IF THE UNITED STATES WANTS TO HELP PRESERVE THE ECOLOGICAL BALANCE, IT SHOULD "SPEED UP DISARMAMENT TALKS WITH THE SOVIET UNION." HE ADDED THAT "THE BEST WAY TO PROTECT THE AMAZON REGION IS TO ELIMINATE DEADLY WEAPONS AND NUCLEAR BOMBS."</p><p>GARCIA THEN REITERATED: "I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT PRESIDENT BUSH HAS SAID THAT, BUT IF HE SAID IT, I BELIEVE THAT IT IS A SERIOUS MATTER AND HE SHOULD GIVE US A CONCRETE OPINION."</p><p>GARCIA DEFENDED RELATIONS WITH BRAZIL BY SAYING: "I BELIEVE FORTIFYING ECONOMIC, SOCIAL, AND GEOGRAPHIC RELATIONS BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES IS A NATIONAL OBJECTIVE." THEN HE ADDED: "BRAZIL IS ONE OF THE WORLD'S MOST IMPORTANT COUNTRIES, AND PERU HAS WRONGLY LIVED IN FEAR OF BRAZIL. LET US HOPE THAT NOT ONE BUT FIVE HIGHWAYS ARE BUILT THROUGH THE AMAZON REGION."</p><p>SIXTY PERCENT OF PERU'S 1.3 MILLION SQUARE KILOMETERS LIE IN THE AMAZON REGION. THAT MAKES UP NEARLY ONE-FIFTH OF THE ENTIRE AMAZON BASIN.</p></body></html>