<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0312"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0312"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0312</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0312 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>LIMA, 28 JUL 89 -- [EDITORIAL] [TEXT] LIMA TELEVISION PERUANA NETWORK IN SPANISH 1733 GMT ON 28 JULY, CONTINUING ITS LIVE COVERAGE OF FESTIVITIES ON THE OCCASION OF PERUVIAN NATIONAL DAY, BROADCASTS A SPEECH TO THE NATION BY PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA LIVE FROM THE NATIONAL CONGRESS CHAMBER IN LIMA.</p><p>PRESIDENT GARCIA NOTES THAT HIS PRESIDENCY HAS BEEN A TESTIMONY OF FAITH TO DEMOCRACY BASED ON THE PERUVIAN CONSTITUTION, WHICH PROVIDES THE FRAMEWORK FOR GOVERNING A FREE PERU. NOTING THAT THIS SPEECH IS HIS LAST MESSAGE TO THE COUNTRY FROM CONGRESS, GARCIA BEGINS TO COMMENT ON THE ACHIEVEMENTS AND EVENTS OF HIS LAST YEAR IN OFFICE. AFTER STRESSING THE IMPORTANCE OF DEMOCRACY AND EDUCATION TO OVERCOME PROBLEMS OF THE ECONOMY AND OF VIOLENCE, GARCIA DECLARES: "I AM HEREBY CALL FOR GENERAL ELECTIONS TO CHOOSE PRESIDENT AND THE MEMBERS OF CONGRESS ON 8 APRIL 1990. APPLAUSE</p><p>"I WOULD LIKE TO REMARK THAT I AM A POLITICIAN, THAT I PARTICIPATE IN DEBATES, AND THAT MY LIFE IS INDEBTED TO THE APRA [AMERICAN POPULAR REVOLUTIONARY ALLIANCE] MOVEMENT. YET AS PRESIDENT I HAVE A MAJOR SACRED MISSION, THAT OF GUARANTEEING THAT THE ELECTIONS WILL BE ABSOLUTELY FAIR AND CLEAN."</p><p>GARCIA NOTES THAT THE ELECTORAL AUTHORITIES WILL BE REPLACED AND THAT THE NATIONAL MEDIA ARE FROM THIS MOMENT ON PLACED AT THE DISPOSAL OF THE CANDIDATES. HE CALLS ON THE ARMED FORCES TO DEFEND DEMOCRACY.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT CALLS ON PERUVIAN YOUTH TO ESCHEW VIOLENCE IN FAVOR OF EDUCATION AND WORKING TOWARD PROMOTING DEMOCRACY.</p><p>GARCIA THEN TURNS HIS ATTENTION TO THE QUESTION OF REGIONALIZATION, NOTING THAT MANY GOVERNMENTAL INSTITUTIONS ARE BEING REORGANIZED TO BETTER SERVE THE PEOPLE. WHEN EACH REGION HAS ITS OWN ELECTED OFFICIALS, HE SAYS, THE PEOPLE WILL EXERT MORE CONTROL OVER OFFICIALS' ACTIVITIES, AND CORRUPTION WILL BE REDUCED. PERU WILL NOT NEED TO ACCEPT INTERNATIONAL SOLUTIONS TO ITS NATIONAL PROBLEMS.</p><p>AFTER CALLING ON THE JUSTICE JUDICIAL BRANCH TO IMPROVE ITS ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE, GARCIA ANNOUNCES: "I HEREBY CALL ELECTIONS -- FOLLOWING A CONSULTATION WITH THE NATIONAL ELECTORAL COURT -- FOR REGIONAL GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVES OF THE GRAU REGION, CREATED ON 1 MARCH 1988, MADE UP OF THE FOLLOWING PROVINCES: TUMBES, CONTRALMIRANTE VILLAR, ZARUMILLA, HUANCABAMBA, MORROPON, PAITA, SULLANA, TALARA, AYABACA, AND PIURA ON 12 NOVEMBER 1989." GARCIA ALSO ISSUES AN OFFICIAL CALL FOR 12 NOVEMBER ELECTIONS IN THE AMAZONAS, AREQUIPA, AND MOQUEGUA-TACNA-PUNO REGIONS.</p><p>AT 1801 GMT GARCIA BEGINS TO SPEAK ON THE SUBJECT OF TERRORISM AND VIOLENCE. HE CALLS ON THE PEOPLE AS WELL AS ALL POLTIICAL PARTIES TO SUPPORT THE ARMED FORCES IN PUTTING AN END TO VIOLENCE. HE PROPOSES THAT TERRORISTS BE TRIED IN MILITARY COURTS.</p><p>ON THE SUBJECT OF THE ECONOMIC CRISIS IN PERU, PRESIDENT GARCIA REITERATES THAT HIS GOVERNMENT IS PROMOTING AN INCREASE IN FOREIGN RESERVES AS WELL AS REACTIVATING THE PRODUCTION SECTOR. HE NOTES THE IMPORTANCE OF FURTHER DEVELOPING AGRICULTURE AND PETROLEUM. HE REVIEWS THE PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS, INCLUDING IRRIGATION AND RURAL ELECTRICIFICATION WORKS, THAT HAVE BEEN INITIATED OR COMPLETED DURING HIS PRESIDENCY.</p><p>GARCIA CALLS ON THE PEOPLE NOT TO BE DEFEATED BY TERRORISM, SENSATIONALISM, OR PESSIMISM. NOTING THAT THE PEOPLE ARE PERU'S MOST IMPORTANT RESOURCE, THE PRESIDENT CALLS FOR IMPROVING THE SOCIAL WELFARE SECTOR. HE DENIES THE RUMOR THAT SECTOR WILL BE PRIVATIZED.</p><p>GARCIA ENDS HIS SPEECH AT 1851 GMT.</p></body></html>