<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0511"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0511"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="KINGSTON (JAMAICA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0511</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0511 (UMASS)</p><p>KINGSTON (JAMAICA), 23 SEP 89 (CANA) -- [TEXT] SECURITY AT THE COLOMBIAN EMBASSY IN KINGSTON HAS BEEN TIGHTENED FOLLOWING A BOMB THREAT ON MONDAY [18 SEPTEMBER], THE GLEANER NEWSPAPER REPORTED.</p><p>SINCE MONDAY, THERE HAS BEEN AN INCREASED PRESENCE OF UNIFORMED POLICEMEN ON GUARD OUTSIDE AND INSIDE THE XEROX BUILDING WHERE THE COLOMBIAN EMBASSY HAS ITS OFFICES.</p><p>REPRESENTATIVES OF THE COLOMBIAN EMBASSY WERE UNWILLING TO TALK TO CANA, BUT THE GLEANER REPORTED THAT MINISTER OF NATIONAL SECURITY K.D. KNIGHT HAD CONFIRMED THAT THREATS HAD BEEN MADE AGAINST THE EMBASSY AND THAT THE NECESSARY PRECAUTIONS HAD BEEN PUT IN PLACE. HE SAID THERE WAS NO NEED FOR ALARM. KNIGHT SAID THAT THE EMBASSY HAD RECEIVED A THREATENING NOTE AND THAT THE MINISTRY HAD ALSO RECEIVED ONE THROUGH A "CHANNEL", BUT GAVE NO DETAILS.</p><p>SINCE TAKING OFFICE, THE MANLEY GOVERNMENT HAS EXPRESSED ITS FIRM COMMITMENT TO STAMP OUT DRUG ABUSE AND DRUG TRAFFICKING. JAMAICA IS SAID TO BE A TRANSSHIPMENT POINT FOR DRUGS SHIPPED FROM SOME LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES TO THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>THE NATIONAL SECURITY MINISTER, HOWEVER, SAID THAT FROM ALL INDICATIONS THE ACTION WAS A "TOTALLY INTERNAL ONE" AND THERE WAS NO OBVIOUS CONNECTIONS WITH THE DRUG WAR BETWEEN THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT AND THE MEDELLIN DRUG CARTEL. "WE ARE LOOKING AT THE MATTER WITH ALL SERIOUSNESS, BUT PRESENT INDICATIONS SHOW THAT WE DO NOT NEED TO BE ALARMED AND ADDITIONAL SECURITY MEASURES HAVE ALREADY BEEN PUT IN PLACE", HE SAID.</p></body></html>