<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0319"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0319"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0319</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0319 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 1 AUG 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] [PASSAGE INDISTINCT] URBAN GUERRILLAS, CLANDESTINE MILITIAS, AND GUERRILLAS. ACCORDING TO THE REPORTS WE HAVE RECEIVED THUS FAR, THE OPERATION HAS BEEN CARRIED OUT AS FOLLOWS:</p><p>1. GUERRILLA COLUMNS ATTACKED SAN RAMON -- SPECIFICALLY THE PARAMILITARY FORCES HEADQUARTERS AND THE NATIONAL GUARD POSTS -- AND CARRIED OUT SABOTAGE ACTIONS, AMBUSHES OF ENEMY REINFORCEMENTS, AND COMBAT WITH ARMY PATROLS, AS WELL AS DISTRIBUTING PROPAGANDA.</p><p>2. ATTACKS ON THE CIVIL DEFENSE GARRISON IN MEJICANOS AND COMBAT ACTIONS IN EL PISO, AS WELL AS THE DISTRIBUTION OF PROPAGANDA.</p><p>3. SABOTAGE ACTIONS AGAINST THE ELECTRICITY SYSTEM IN THE ESCALON AND SAN BENITO NEIGHBORHOODS AND OTHER POINTS IN THE CAPITAL CITY, WHICH HAS BEEN LEFT WITHOUT ELECTRICITY AND [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>4. DISTRIBUTION OF PROPAGANDA IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA OF THE CAPITAL CITY AND ARMY BOULEVARD. 5. AMBUSHES OF MILITARY DETACHMENTS. 6. COMBAT</p><p>ACTIONS AGAINST ARMY UNITS IN THE MIRALVALLE, SATELITE, MONTE BELLO, ZACAMIL, ADUC, AND OTHER NEIGHBORHOODS. DURING THIS OPERATION, WE HAVE TAKEN A QUALITATIVE LEAP IN COORDINATING OUR URBAN FORCES IN SIMULTANEOUS ATTACKS.</p><p>THIS IS OUR RESPONSE TO THE DEATH SQUADS' ECONOMIC POLICY [WORDS INDISTINCT] HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS, RAIDS, TORTURES, AND MURDERS OF LABOR UNION MOVEMENT MEMBERS. AS WE HAVE DEMONSTRATED THROUGH OUR URBAN OPERATION, THE [WORD INDISTINCT] PLAN IS NOT AGAINST THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT], BUT AGAINST ALL NATIONAL SECTORS WITH THE AIM OF STIFLING ALL OPPOSITION TO THE ARENA'S [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] PLANS OF PERMANENTLY PLACING IN POWER THE OLIGARCHIC MINORITY IT REPRESENTS.</p><p>THE FMLN CALLS ON ALL NATIONAL SECTORS TO JOIN EFFORTS TO DEFEAT ARENA'S TOTAL WAR PLANS SO THAT ALL SALVADORANS UNITED AGAINST FASCISM WILL FIND A NATIONAL SOLUTION TO THE CONFLICT.</p><p>[SIGNED] FMLN GENERAL COMMAND, 1 AUGUST 1989</p></body></html>