<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0569"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0569"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0569</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0569 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>LIMA, NO DATE (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [BARCO] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [BARCO] SECOND, MY ADMINISTRATION HAS ADOPTED MEASURES TO CONFRONT ORGANIZED TERRORISM WHICH IS CONDUCTED BY DRUG CARTELS OR GANGS OF CRIMINALS, TRAINED BY FOREIGN MERCENARIES AND FINANCED BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS. THEY HAVE MURDERED JUDGES, A MINISTER OF JUSTICE, A ... [TELEVISION BROADCAST INTERRUPTED FOR 4 MINUTES DUE TO TRANSMISSION PROBLEMS] ... IN A LETTER DATED OCTOBER 9 TO UN SECRETARY GENERAL JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR AND THE RESPECTIVE AMBASSADORS.</p><p>THIS SPECIAL ASSEMBLY DOES NOT MEAN THAT THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL SHOULD EXCLUDE WORLD SECURITY ISSUES. IT IS IMPORTANT THAT [TELEVISION BROADCASTING INTERRUPTED FOR HALF A MINUTE DUE TO TRANSMISSION PROBLESM]... WORLD DEVELOPMENT AND POLITICAL POWER. TO THIS WE MUST ALSO ADD THE UNIFICATION OF THE EUROPE IN 1992. BESIDES, THE SOVIET POLICIES OF PERESTROYKA AND GLASNOST HAVE SUBSTANTIALLY MODIFIED NOT ONLY THE COMMUNIST IDEAS BUT ALSO THE FUTURE WORLD POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC SCENE.</p><p>THESE TRANSFORMATIONS ARE ATTRACTIVE FOR THE INDUSTRIALIZED EUROPEAN COUNTRIES. THEY PROMOTE THE DEVELOPMENT OF EASTERN EUROPE AND PROBABLY REDUCE EUROPEAN INTEREST IN LATIN AMERICA. BESIDES, THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA ARE PERMANENTLY MAKING PROGRESS TOWARD THEIR SOCIOECONOMIC INTEGRATION.</p><p>WE STAND BEFORE A DIFFERENT WORLD WHICH IS OFFERING OPPORTUNITIES WHICH MUST BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT, BUT WHICH ALSO CREATES DIFFICULTIES FOR WHICH WE MUST BE PREPARED. LATIN AMERICA SHOULD RECONSIDER ITS SITUATION AND POLICIES IN FACE OF THE RAPID WORLD CHANGES. WE MUST ANALYZE THE WAY IN WHICH WE WILL INTEGRATE AND HARMONIZE OUR ECONOMIES IN THIS NEW INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL SCENE.</p><p>IN FACE OF THESE EVENTS, WE MUST REDEFINE OUR INTEGRATION FORMULAS AND OUR DEVELOPMENT MODELS. I SUGGEST THAT A WORK GROUP BE FORMED TO STUDY THIS SUBJECT AND TO ADOPT SPECIFIC MEASURES LEADING TO THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL PROGRESS OF LATIN AMERICA IN THIS NEW WORLD THAT IS BEING BORN.</p><p>MY DEAR PRESIDENTS AND FRIENDS, THIS NEW MEETING OF THE GROUP OF EIGHT MUST MAKE US STRENGTHEN OUR SOLIDARITY IN FACE OF THE THREATS AGAINST DEMOCRACY AND OUR SOCIAL PROGRESS. WE MUST STRENGTHEN THE REGIONAL COOPERATION MECHANISM AND OUR NEGOTIATED CAPACITY THROUGH THE IMPLEMENTATION OF AN EFFICIENT STRATEGY OF CONSENSUS TO MAKE OUR PROPOSALS MORE SOLID.</p><p>WE MEMBER COUNTRIES OF THE GROUP OF EIGHT ARE UNITED BY UNDENIABLE HISTORIC TIES OF FRIENDSHIP. WE ARE ALSO UNITED BY STRATEGIC, POLITICAL, AND ECONOMIC INTERESTS WHICH MUST BE COORDINATED TO BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY FACE THE CHALLENGES OF TOMORROW.</p><p>AS I RECENTLY TOLD MY VENEZUELAN COUNTERPART, UNITY CAN BE SOLIDLY BUILT ON FEASIBLE INITIATIVES RATHER THAN ON WORDS. INTEGRATION THRIVES ON ACHIEVEMENT THAT IN PRACTICE BRING PEOPLES TOGETHER AND ALLOW THEM TO ENJOY THE RESULTS OF PROGRESS OBTAINED THROUGH COMMON EFFORT. YEARS OF STRUGGLE FOR REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT HAVE SHOWN US THAT DEVELOPMENT MUST BE BASED ON ACTIONS THAT WILL GENERATE CONFIDENCE AND WELL-BEING, CONTRIBUTE TO NATURALLY COMPLEMENTARY ACTIONS, AND SOLVE SMALL AND LARGE PROBLEMS.</p><p>COLOMBIA IS DETERMINED TO CONTINUE STRENGTHENING THE MECHANISM OF CONSENSUS BY ENDORSING THE SUGGESTIONS I HAVE MADE AND THOSE THAT WILL SPRING FROM THIS SUMMIT MEETING. THANK YOU. [APPLAUSE]</p></body></html>