<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0139"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0139"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0139</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0139 (BELLCORE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 19 MAR 89 (RADIO FARABUNDO MARTI) -- [TEXT] THE DICTATORSHIP HAS CARRIED OUT ANOTHER COWARDLY ACTION. PAY CLOSE ATTENTION: ON THE NIGHT OF 18 MARCH, TWO REPORTERS WERE COWARDLY SHOT IN SOYAPANGO. LAST NIGHT, REPORTER ROBERTO NAVAS AND LUIS GALDAMEZ WERE SHOT BY TROOPS OF THE DICTATORSHIP.</p><p>THE THREATS BY ATTORNEY GENERAL ROBERTO GARCIA AND VIDES CASANOVA THREATS FELL UPON REPORTERS LUIS GALDAMEZ AND ROBERTO NAVAS LAST NIGHT. WE ARE VIGOROUSLY CONDEMNING THIS NEW COWARDLY ACTION CARRIED OUT BY VIDES CASANOVA'S TROOPS AND COMMANDING OFFICERS.</p><p>IN THE AREA OF SOYAPANGO AT APPROXIMATELY 2200 LAST NIGHT, REPORTERS ROBERTO NAVAS AND LUIS GALDAMEZ WERE COWARDLY STRAFED BY TROOPS OF THE DICTATORSHIP.</p><p>REPORTS GIVEN BY SOYAPANGO RESIDENTS INDICATE THAT [AIR FORCE COMMANDER] JUAN RAFAEL BUSTILLO'S TROOPS ARE PATROLLING AND CONTINUOUSLY SOWING TERROR IN THAT DENSELY POPULATED AREA.</p><p>REPORTERS ROBERTO NAVAS AND LUIS GALDAMEZ WERE RIDING A MOTORCYCLE AT APPROXIMATELY 2200 WHEN THEY WERE VICTIMS OF INDISCRIMINATE SHOOTING. WE SUPPORT THE CONDEMNATION PRESENTED BY OUR COMRADE REPORTERS WE GIVE... [9-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION].</p><p>WE HAVE LEARNED THAT JOURNALIST ROBERTO NAVAS DIED INSTANTANEOUSLY AS A RESULT OF THE SHOOTING BY JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE'S TROOPS. [WORDS INDISTINCT] SERIOUSLY WOUNDED. LUIS GALDAMEZ IS CRITICALLY ILL WHILE ROBERTO NAVAS DIED INSTANTANEOUSLY. THE TWO REPORTERS WERE MEMBERS OF THE TEAM OF REPORTERS [WORDS INDISTINCT] REUTER.</p><p>WHILE CONDEMNING AND VIGOROUSLY SUPPORTING THE JOURNALISTS' PROTEST [WORD INDISTINCT] WE URGE YOU TO REPUDIATE THIS KIND OF ACTION, WHICH [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>DURING TODAY'S TRANSMISSION 6-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION AND OF VIDES CASANOVA. THE [WORDS INDISTINCT] CIVILIANS AND THE INDISCRIMINATE SHOOTING OF PRIVATE VEHICLES, RED CROSS VEHICLES, AND REPORTERS [WORDS INDISTINCT] COWARDLY ACTIONS [WORD INDISTINCT] GENERALIZED [WORDS INDISTINCT] VIDES CASANOVA'S TROOPS ARE CARRYING OUT WITHIN THE REPRESSIVE FRAMEWORK OF THE 19 MARCH ELECTION FARCE.</p></body></html>