<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0481"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0481"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAVANA (CUBA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0481</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0481 (UMASS)</p><p>HAVANA (CUBA), 14 SEP 89 (RADIO RELOJ NETWORK) -- [TEXT] THE REBELS' DECISION TO EXPRESS THEIR WILLINGNESS TO ABANDON THE ARMED STRUGGLE AND MAKE OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FLMN] OF EL SALVADOR A LEGAL PARTY, FAR FROM WEAKENING THE GUERRILLA, STRENGTHENS ITS REVOLUTIONARY POSITION. A COMMENTARY WRITTEN BY RITA CEBALLOS FROM PRENSA LATINA NOTES THAT IN ADDITION OF BEING DECISIVE IN THE ACHIEVEMENT OF A DRASTIC INTERNAL CHANGE, THE PROPOSAL MADE BY THE GUERRILLA IS A POLITICAL BLOW TO THE SALVADORAN EXTREME RIGHT.</p><p>PRENSA LATINA ADDS THAT THE DISARMAMENT AND PEACE OFFER GIVES SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI A SITUATION HE HAS TO RESOLVE IN THE INTERNATIONAL AREA. NO MATTER WHAT THE OFFICIAL RESPONSE IS DURING THE CONSULTATION SESSIONS BEING HELD IN MEXICO BETWEEN THE EXTREME RIGHT'S NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE AND REPRESENTATIVES OF THE FLMN, THE SALVADORAN REACTIONARIES WILL NOT BENEFIT. THE FLMN SAID IN THE MEETING IN MEXICO THAT EITHER THE REGIME ACCEPTS THE CONDITIONS SUGGESTED BY THE GUERRILLA OR PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI ANNOUNCES HE FAVORS A WAR HE CANNOT WIN.</p><p>THE GUERRILLA PROPOSES THE TOTAL CEASE OF HOSTILITIES BEFORE 31 JANUARY, END OF THE REPRESSION, SELF-CLEANING OF THE ARMY, AND THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE MUNICIPAL AND ELECTORAL SYSTEM, AMONG OTHER PROPOSALS. PRENSA LATINA COMMENTS THAT THE SWIFTNESS WITH WHICH THE GUERRILLA CHIEFS PRESENTED THEIR PROPOSALS AND THEIR CONTENTS LEFT CRISTIANI'S CABINET AT THE DEFENSIVE AS WELL AS ITS MANEUVERS TO DISARM THE REVOLUTIONARIES. THE AGREEMENT OF ARENA, THE ULTRA-RIGHT RULING PARTY, TO TALK WITH THE GUERRILLA OPENS A POSSIBILITY FOR PEACE IN EL SALVADOR. WE WILL HAVE TO WAIT AND SEE.</p></body></html>