<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0185"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0185"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="PRAGUE (CZECHOSLOVAKIA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0185</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0185 (ADS)</p><p>PRAGUE (CZECHOSLOVAKIA), 21 APR 89 (RUDE PRAVO) -- [INTERVIEW WITH MANUEL CEPEDA, MEMBER OF THE COLOMBIAN COMMUNIST PARTY CENTRAL COMMITTEE POLITBURO, BY VERA POSLEDNI] [TEXT] RECENTLY COMRADE MANUEL CEPEDA, MEMBER OF THE COLOMBIAN COMMUNIST PARTY CENTRAL COMMITTEE POLITBURO, VISITED CZECHOSLOVAKIA; WE ASKED HIM FOR AN INTERVIEW.</p><p>[POSLEDNI] IN THE COURSE OF A FEW DAYS AT THE BEGINNING OF MARCH, THREE LEADING OFFICIALS OF THE COLOMBIAN COMMUNIST PARTY AND THE LEFTIST COALITION, THE PATRIOTIC UNION (UP), COMRADES FORERO, SOTELO, AND ANTEQUERA, WERE MURDERED IN COLOMBIA. WHY?</p><p>[CEPEDA] IN COLOMBIA THE DIRTY WAR STEMMING FROM THE AMERICAN TACTICS OF SO-CALLED LOW-INTENSITY CONFLICT IS INTENSIFYING. THE INTERNAL POLITICAL CRISIS IS DEEPENED BY AN ALLIANCE BETWEEN THE POWERFUL DRUG SMUGGLING CLANS AND THE MILITARY LEADERSHIP WHICH IS CONDUCTING THE DIRTY WAR. IN THE SANTA FE II DOCUMENT, FORMULATING FUTURE UNITED STATES POLICY IN LATIN AMERICA, IT IS EVEN SAID THAT UNLESS THE UNITED STATES INTERVENES IN THE 1990'S COLOMBIA WILL BECOME ANOTHER EL SALVADOR AND ON A MUCH LARGER SCALE. THE SO-CALLED EXTERMINATION OPERATION, ALSO KNOWN AS THE CONDOR PLAN, IS DIRECTED AGAINST THE COMMUNIST PARTY AND UP, AGAINST THE UNIONS, BUT ALSO AGAINST PRIESTS WHO PREACH LIBERATION THEOLOGY, AND RECENTLY THIS HAS INTENSIFIED. IN COLOMBIA SOME ELEMENTS OF FASCISM OPENLY MANIFEST THEMSELVES. THIS IS MANIFESTED IN HUGE AND UNPUNISHED MASSACRES AND IN THE POWERLESSNESS OF PRESIDENT BARCO AND HIS CIVILIAN MINISTERS WHO ARE NOT MANAGING TO KEEP THE MILITARY LEADERSHIP IN CHECK, ALTHOUGH THE PRESIDENT IS THE SUPREME COMMANDER OF THE ARMED FORCES.</p><p>[POSLEDNI] SOMETIMES PARTISANS ARE ALSO ACCUSED OF TERROR.</p><p>[CEPEDA] THAT IS ONE OF THE TRAITS OF AMERICAN POLICY -- TO TERM ANY KIND OF REVOLUTIONARY STRUGGLE, OF STRUGGLE FOR DEMOCRACY, AND THE PEOPLE'S MOVEMENT AS TERRORISM. THEREFORE, IT ALSO LABELS THE SANDINISTAS IN NICARAGUA AS TERRORISTS AND THE CONTRA REBELS AS FREEDOM FIGHTERS. BY THIS I DO NOT WANT TO SAY THAT THE PARTISANS DO NOT MAKE MISTAKES, WE ALSO CRITICIZE THEM. FOR EXAMPLE, WE CONDEMNED THE DESTRUCTION OF OIL PIPLINES BY THE COLOMBIAN PARTISAN ORGANIZATION THE NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (ELN). WE DO NOT AGREE WITH KIDNAPPING CIVILIANS IN EXCHANGE FOR RANSOM. WE ANNOUNCED THAT, AS LONG AS IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO END THE CONFLICT, IT IS NECESSARY TO HUMANIZE IT AND TO RESPECT HUMAN LIVES. THESE ARE THE TACTICS OF SOLDIERS -- TO LABEL THE PARTISANS AS TERRORISTS AND THEN MASSACRE THE CIVILIAN POPULATION AS SUSPECTS WHO ARE COLLABORATING WITH TERRORISM.</p><p>[POSLEDNI] PARTISANS FROM THE REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (FARC) OFFERED THE GOVERNMENT A DIALOGUE ABOUT A TRUCE. HOW DO THEY WANT TO CONDUCT THIS?</p><p>[CEPEDA] THE FARC, WHICH IS THE STRONGEST ELEMENT OF THE COLOMBIAN PARTISAN MOVEMENT AND A MEMBER OF ITS COORDINATING COMMITTEE, UNILATERALLY ADOPTED A CEASE-FIRE AND PROPOSED THE CREATION OF A COMMISSION FOR THIS DIALOGUE. IN IT ARE TWO FORMER PRESIDENTS, THE LIBERAL LOPEZ MICHELSEN AND THE CONSERVATIVE PASTRANA, THE CHAIRMAN OF THE ASSOCIATION OF INDUSTRIALISTS ECHEVERRI CORREA, AND BOGOTA'S CARDINAL REBOLLO. THE FARC WANTS THE GOVERNMENT TO DISBAND THE PARAMILITARY GROUPS. THE FORMER INTERIOR MINISTER, GAVIRIA, SAID THAT THERE ARE 140 OF THEM. THIS MEANS THAT THE GOVERNMENT KNOWS THEM. THE FARC IS DEMANDING THE PURGE OF PEOPLE FROM THE ARMY COMMAND INVOLVED IN THE DIRTY WAR, THAT THE DEFENSE MINISTER BE A CIVILIAN, THAT THE STATE OF EMERGENCY BE REVOKED, AND THAT THE ROAD TO REAL DEMOCRACY BE OPENED.</p><p>[POSLEDNI] BUT THE GOVERNMENT HAS BEGUN NEGOTIATING WITH PARTISANS FROM M-19.</p><p>[CEPEDA] THE EL TIEMPO NEWSPAPER REPORTED THAT THE GOVERNMENT PROMISED THEM REPRESENTATION IN PARLIAMENT BY THEIR INCLUSION AS CANDIDATES OF THE LIBERAL PARTY. THIS IS TO INVOLVE FOUR SEATS AS LONG AS M-19 LAYS DOWN ITS ARMS AND DISBANDS. THE OTHER PARTISANS BITTERLY CRITICIZED THIS AS A BLOW AGAINST THE UNITY OF THE MOVEMENT WHICH WILL BE ABUSED FOR PROPAGANDA PURPOSES. AT THE SAME TIME, M-19 REPRESENTS ONLY 5 PERCENT OF THE MOVEMENT. IT IS THE INTENTION OF THE GOVERNMENT TO DIVIDE THE PARTISANS.</p><p>[POSLEDNI] THE COLOMBIAN COMMUNIST PARTY CONGRESS TOOK PLACE IN DECEMBER. HOW DID IT REACT TO THE SITUATION?</p><p>[CEPEDA] THE PARTY CALLED FOR PEACE AND OUTLINED THE STRUGGLE FOR A PLURALIST GOVERNMENT OF TRANSITION TOWARDS PEACE AND DEMOCRACY. AT THE END OF FEBRUARY THERE WAS A CENTRAL COMMITTEE SESSION WHICH DISCUSSED THE DIRTY WAR. IT STATED THAT, IN SPITE OF THE TERROR, THERE HAD NOT BEEN WHAT HAD HAPPENED IN SIMILAR SITUATIONS IN OTHER LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES, NAMELY, MASS EMIGRATION. TO ENSURE THAT THIS DOES NOT HAPPEN IN THE FUTURE, THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE DISCUSSED NEW MEASURES, INCLUDING THE TRANSITION OF PART OF THE PARTY TO THE UNDERGROUND. WE WILL NOT ALL TRANSFER, BECAUSE NOW WE MUST STRUGGLE FOR OPEN CONTACT WITH THE MASSES, REGARDLESS OF THE HUGE RISK WHICH IS LINKED TO THIS.</p><p>[POSLEDNI] WHERE IS THE PARTY SEEKING ALLIES?</p><p>[CEPEDA] COMRADE ANTEQUERA, AS DEPUTY CHAIRMAN OF THE UP, HAD ESTABLISHED A NUMBER OF CONTACTS. HOWEVER, HE WAS MURDERED, AND SENATOR SAMPER PISANO, A POLITICIAN FROM THE RULING LIBERAL PARTY, WAS SERIOUSLY INJURED DURING THE ASSASSINATION AT BOGOTA AIRPORT ON 3 MARCH. THE ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT AGAINST THE 32-YEAR-OLD PROSPECTIVE POLITICIAN OCCURRED THE DAY AFTER HE ANNOUNCED HIS CANDIDACY FOR THE PRESIDENCY. HE ANNOUNCED HIS SUPPORT FOR DEMOCRATIC COEXISTENCE, FOR AN END TO THE DIRTY WAR WHICH, AS HE SAID, IS NOT IN THE INTEREST OF THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE. THEREFORE, HE WAS NOT A CHANCE VICTIM. IT IS ALSO SIGNIFICANT THAT THE CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION COVERING THE AIRPORT, WHICH IS IN THE HANDS OF THE ARMY, WAS SWITCHED OFF. THUS, THEY WANTED TO PREVENT THE MURDERERS BEING FILMED. ONE OF THEM DIED, THEY LET THE OTHER THREE ESCAPE. AT THE SAME TIME, BOGOTA'S CHIEF OF POLICE WAS AT THE AIRPORT ALONG WITH ANOTHER 10 COLONELS AND A NUMBER OF POLICEMEN AND PERSONAL BODYGUARDS.</p><p>[POSLEDNI] HOW DID THE OTHER PARTIES REACT TO THE ASSASSINATION?</p><p>[CEPEDA] A JOINT DOCUMENT WAS SIGNED BY THE COLOMBIAN COMMUNIST PARTY, THE UP, AND THE LIBERAL PARTY, ON WHOSE BEHALF THE FORMER PRESIDENT TURBAY AYALA SIGNED. IT DEMANDS THAT THE GOVERNMENT DISBAND THE PARAMILITARY SQUADS. IT SHOWS THAT OPINIONS ARE BEGINNING TO DIFFER, EVEN IN THE RULING LIBERAL PARTY. THE CONSERVATIVES ARE ALSO EMPHATICALLY CRITICIZING THE BLOODBATH AND THE PASSIVITY OF THE GOVERNMENT, POINTING OUT THAT THEIR LAST PRESIDENT, BETANCUR, CONDUCTED A DIALOGUE WITH THE PARTISANS. THIS IS ALL HAPPENING BEFORE THE ELECTIONS WHICH WILL TAKE PLACE NEXT YEAR.</p><p>[POSLEDNI] THE COLOMBIAN COMMUNIST PARTY LEADERSHIP MET WITH THE PRESIDENT AFTER THE MURDER OF COMRADE FORERO. WHAT WAS THAT ABOUT?</p><p>[CEPEDA] IN THE CONVERSATION, WE POINTED TO THE FACT THAT THE DEFENSE MINISTER, GENERAL GUERRERO PAZ, TRAVELS AROUND COLOMBIA ACCOMPANIED BY THE LEADER OF THE ULTRA-RIGHT WING, RETIRED GENERAL LANDAZABAL REYES, WHO IS LEADER OF THE PARAMILITARY GROUPS. WE ASKED WHY THESE TWO ARE TOGETHER. THE PRESIDENT DID NOT ANSWER US. AT THE MEETING WE ALSO SAID THAT, UNLESS THE DIRTY WAR STOPS, THE COLOMBIAN COMMUNIST PARTY FOR THE FIRST TIME IN HISTORY WILL NOT TAKE PART IN THE ELECTIONS. WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO PARTICIPATE, BECAUSE WE ARE ALL BEING MURDERED. UNLESS THE GOVERNMENT GIVES US A GUARANTEE OF SECURITY, WE WILL NOT SACRIFICE MORE LIVES.</p><p>[POSLEDNI] THANK YOU FOR THE INTERVIEW.</p></body></html>