<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0866"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0866"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SEOUL (ROK)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0866</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0866 (GTE)</p><p>SEOUL (ROK), 22 NOV 89 (HANGYORE SINMUN) -- [EDITORIAL] [TEXT] AT A TIME WHEN THE WORLD'S ATTENTION IS RIVETED ON THE DEMOCRATIZATION MOVEMENT IN EASTERN EUROPE, WE HEAR A GLOOMY NEWS REPORT THAT THE PROTRACTED CIVIL WAR BETWEEN EL SALVADOR'S GOVERNMENTAL TROOPS RECEIVING U.S. ASSISTANCE AND LEFTIST GUERRILLAS HAS RECENTLY ONCE AGAIN INTENSIFIED, AND HAS TAKEN MANY LIVES.</p><p>THE SOVIET UNION IS NOW PRODDING THE COUNTRIES IN EASTERN EUROPE, WHICH WERE ONCE KNOWN AS SOVIET SATELLITES, TO DEMOCRATIZE AND TO REFORM THEIR STATE SYSTEMS; WHY DOES THE UNITED STATES INCREASE ITS MILITARY AID TO EL SALVADOR AND CAUSE THE CIVIL WAR TO INTENSIFY?</p><p>LIKE MANY CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICAN COUNTRIES BEFORE THEY BECAME DEMOCRATIZED, THE POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR IS SUCH THAT IT IS PLAGUED BY AN EXTREME FORM OF THE GAP BETWEEN RICH AND POOR, BY MILITARY DICTATORSHIP, BY RIGHT-WING TERRORISM, AND BY ABUSE OF HUMAN RIGHTS TO THE POINT WHERE IT COULD BE ENGULFED BY REVOLUTION AT ANY TIME. HOW CAN A COUNTRY WHERE MORE THAN 2.5 MILLION OUT OF A POPULATION OF 5.4 MILLION ARE ON THE BORDER OF STARVATION, AND WHERE ROUGHLY 20 PERCENT OF THE POPULATION ENJOYS 66 PERCENT OF THE COUNTRY'S GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT, BE IN PEACE?</p><p>AFTER A LARGE-SCALE PEASANT UPRISING IN 1930, THE LEFTIST FORCES IN THIS COUNTRY FORMED A UNIFIED GUERRILLA ORGANIZATION IN 1980 AND BEGAN THE ARMED STRUGGLE IN EARNEST.</p><p>THE OLIGARCHIC RULING CLASS, WHICH IS SAID TO CONSIST OF 15 TO 240 FAMILIES WITH HIGH INCOME, LAUNCHED A "CLEAN-UP OPERATION" AGAINST GUERRILLAS IN COLLUSION WITH THE MILITARY, AND OPENLY MASSACRED THE LEADERS OF WORKERS AND PEASANTS BY ORGANIZING AN EXTREME RIGHT-WING ASSASSINATION GROUP CALLED THE "DEATH SQUAD." THEY EVEN WENT SO FAR AS TO ASSASSINATE INTELLECTUALS AND CLERGYMEN WHO CHAMPIONED SOCIAL REFORM AND HUMAN RIGHTS.</p><p>FILMS SUCH AS "ROMERO" AND "SALVADOR" THAT HAVE BEEN SHOWN IN OUR COUNTRY IN RECENT MONTHS ARE CLEAR EVIDENCE OF THE BRUTALITY COMMITTED BY SUCH AN ASSASSINATION GROUP. THIS GROUP WAS UNQUESTIONABLY BEHIND THE RECENT ASSASSINATIONS IN WHICH 10 LABOR UNION LEADERS WERE MERCILESSLY MASSACRED AND ANOTHER 8, INCLUDING A JESUIT PRIEST, WERE BRUTALLY KILLED.</p><p>THE PROBLEM IS THAT THE UNITED STATES LURKS BEHIND THE MILITARY AND RIGHT-WING FORCES THAT ARE BENT ON SUPPRESSING THOSE WHO CALL FOR SOCIAL REFORM AND RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS, NOT STOPPING AT A "CLEANING UP" OF THE LEFTIST GUERRILLAS. WHILE SENDING A GROUP OF MILITARY ADVISERS TO EL SALVADOR TO HELP THE GOVERNMENT TROOPS MOP UP THE GUERRILLAS, THE UNITED STATES IS NOW ALSO SUPPLYING THE COUNTRY WITH WEAPONS, INCLUDING ASSAULT HELICOPTERS, WORTH U.S. $103 MILLION.</p><p>HOW LONG WILL THE UNITED STATES RETAIN ITS OLD POLICY OF IGNORING SOCIAL REFORM AND DEMOCRATIZATION IN A NEIGHBORING COUNTRY AND OF GIVING MILITARY AID TO ITS INCOMPETENT GOVERNMENT IN ORDER TO DEFEND ITS OWN INTERESTS? WITH OUR EYES ON THE DEMOCRATIZATION MOVEMENT IN EAST EUROPE, WE ARE COMPELLED TO THINK ONCE AGAIN OF THE DEMOCRATIZATION IN CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA, AND OF THE OUTSIDE INTERVENTION THERE BLOCKING THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS.</p><p>DRAWING A LESSON FROM THE DEFEAT IT SUFFERED IN VIETNAM AND IN IRAN, THE UNITED STATES SHOULD CEASE INTERFERING IN THE INTERNAL AFFAIRS OF OTHER COUNTRIES.</p></body></html>