<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1059"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1059"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="QUITO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1059</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1059 (TRW)</p><p>QUITO, 18 JAN 90 (AFP) -- [TEXT] A CALL FOR FREE ELECTIONS IN PANAMA, SUPPORT FOR PUERTO RICAN INDEPENDENCE, AND THE CONDEMNATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS IN GUATEMALA AND EL SALVADOR WERE SOME OF THE CONCLUSIONS REACHED AT THE END OF THE MEETING OF THE SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL [IS] COMMISSION FOR LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN THIS AFTERNOON IN QUITO. THE IS FOCUSED ON THE SITUATION IN PANAMA, REITERATING ITS STRONG CONDEMNATION OF THE U.S. INVASION AND DEMANDING "THE IMMEDIATE AND UNCONDITIONAL WITHDRAWAL" OF THOSE TROOPS. IT ALSO DEMANDED THAT "FREE AND DEMOCRATIC ELECTIONS BE HELD WITHOUT FOREIGN MEDDLING."</p><p>THE IS CONDEMNED THE SERIOUS HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS AND DEATHS DURING THE U.S. INVASION AND SAID IT WAS NECESSARY TO ESTABLISH AN INVESTIGATIVE COMMISSION WITH THE COOPERATION OF THE INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS. IN ADDITION, IT ASKED THAT THE TORRIJOS - CARTER TREATIES BE RESPECTED. THE GROUP ALSO DEMANDED ABSOLUTE RESPECT FOR DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY AND SANCTITY, AND REJECTED THE ROLE OF "POLICEMAN TO PROTECT DEMOCRACY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT WANTS TO ASSIGN ITSELF." IT NOTED THE URGENCY IN JOINING EFFORTS TO FIND PATHS THAT WILL LEAD TO THE REESTABLISHMENT OF SOVEREIGNTY AND DEMOCRACY IN PANAMA.</p><p>MOREOVER, THE IS VOICED SUPPORT FOR THE EFFORTS THE PUERTO RICAN INDEPENDENTIST PARTY IS MAKING TO GET THE U.S. CONGRESS TO ALLOW A REFERENDUM IN PUERTO RICO. THE REFERENDUM WILL LET PUERTO RICANS DECIDE THEIR POLITICAL FUTURE, WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF INDEPENDENCE SOME AREA COUNTRIES ARE DEMANDING.</p><p>THE IS COMMITTEE ALSO NOTED ITS CONCERN OVER THE CLIMATE OF INSECURITY AND REPEATED HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS THE PROPERO AVRIL GOVERNMENT IS FOSTERING IN HAITI. AFTER INDICATING THAT THIS SITUATION "IMPERILS" THE ELECTIONS SET FOR THIS YEAR, THE IS CALLED ON THE GOVERNMENT TO ADOPT THE MEASURES THAT ENSURE HUMAN RIGHTS ARE RESPECTED.</p><p>IN ADDITION, THE COMMITTEE CONDEMNED THE RECENT MURDER IN GUATEMALA OF POLITICAL LEADERS HECTOR OQUELI COLINDRES AND GILDA AMPARO FLORES AREVALO. IT ALSO ANNOUNCED A COMMISSION WILL BE SENT TO THE GOVERNMENTS OF EL SALVADOR AND GUATEMALA TO FIND THE PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MURDERS.</p><p>ON THE TOPIC OF DRUG TRAFFICKING, THE IS COMMISSION DEMANDS THAT THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE DEVELOPING COUNTRIES ADOPT THE MEASURES NEEDED TO LOWER INTERNAL DISTRIBUTION AND CONSUMPTION OF DRUGS AND TO FIGHT MONEY LAUNDERING.</p><p>IN CONCLUSION, THE COMMISSION DISCUSSED A PRELIMINARY REPORT BY AN IS MISSION THAT VISITED NICARAGUA TO OBSERVE THE ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN. THE REPORT NOTES THAT, "CONSIDERING THE COUNTRY'S SITUATION, THE MISSION FEELS THE ELECTORAL PROCESS HAS BEEN SATISFACTORY SO FAR."</p><p>ENRIQUE SILVA CIMMA, IS VICE PRESIDENT AND FUTURE CHILEAN FOREIGN MINISTER, CHAIRED THE 2-DAY MEETING THAT GATHERED 64 POLITICAL LEADERS FROM 10 COUNTRIES OF THE REGION AND GUESTS FROM THE UNITED STATES, FRG, ISRAEL, THE INTERNATIONAL SOCIALIST OF WOMEN, AND THE INTER-AMERICAN REGIONAL ORGANIZATION OF WORKERS.</p><p>SILVA CIMMA SAID THAT THIS AND OTHER MEETINGS DO NOT AIM AT SETTING GUIDELINES THE PARTIES ARE OBLIGATED TO FOLLOW. INSTEAD, THE MEETINGS ALLOW PARTIES TO EXCHANGE VIEWS REGARDING THE NEED TO DEAL WITH THE FUNDAMENTAL VIEWS OF THIS IDEOLOGICAL CONCEPT WITHIN THE BASIC IDEAL OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISM.</p></body></html>