<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1103"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1103"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1103</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1103 (UNISYS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 13 FEB 90 (DPA) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT HAS PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED ITS REGRET OVER THE DEATH OF SEVERAL CHILDREN AND CIVILIANS IN THE GUANCORITA CANTON, CHALANTENGO DEPARTMENT, ON 11 FEBRUARY, AND HAS ORDERED AN INVESTIGATION TO CLARIFY THE CASE, WHICH IS BEING BLAMED ON THE AIR FORCE. THE MASSACRE TOOK PLACE AT A CAMP OF SALVADORAN REFUGEES WHO HAD BEEN IN HONDURAS. ACCORDING TO RESIDENTS, SALVADORAN AIR FORCE HELICOPTERS STRAFED THE CAMP FOLLOWING A CLASH BETWEEN GOVERNMENT TROOPS AND GUERRILLAS OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT.</p><p>MEANWHILE, AIR FORCE COMMANDER GENERAL RAFAEL VILLAMARIONA DENIED THE ACCUSATIONS BUT ADMITTED SOLDIERS BELONGING TO A DETACHMENT STATIONED IN CHALANTENANGO HAD RECEIVED AIR SUPPORT. "THE PARTICIPATION OF THE AIR FORCE IS EFFECTED ACCORDING TO REGULATIONS, WHICH IS WHY IT COULD NOT HAVE BOMBED CIVILIANS," VILLAMARIONA SAID.</p><p>IN THE WAKE OF THIS GRAVE INCIDENT, CHALANTENANGO DIOCESE BISHOP MSGR. EDUARDO ALAS HELPED TO PROVIDE RELIEF TO THE WOUNDED AND HEARD TESTIMONIES FROM RESIDENTS. THEY SAID THAT THE HELICOPTERS HAD DROPPED "ROCKETS," ACCORDING TO THE BISHOP.</p><p>ON MONDAY, MILITARY SOURCES CONFIRMED HEAVY FIGHTING HAD TAKEN PLACE IN THE AREA KNOWN AS CORRAL DE PIEDRA, GUANCORITA CANTON, SOME 80 KM NORTH OF SAN SALVADOR, AND THAT SEVERAL CIVILIANS WERE KILLED AND AT LEAST 15 WOUNDED AS A RESULT OF THE FIGHTING. MASS GROUPS HAVE DEMANDED PUNISHMENT FOR THE PERSONS RESPONSIBLE, SINCE THE VICTIMS, MOST OF THEM MINORS, WERE REPATRIATES FROM HONDURAS WHO HAD SETTLED BETWEEN GUARJILA AND SAN JOSE LAS FLORES, WHICH IS WHERE THEY HAD COME FROM.</p><p>THE ARMY STATES THAT IT ALSO CAPTURED A REBEL IDENTIFIED AS ABEL DUBON CHEVARRIA, WHO ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL REPORT DISCLOSED THAT THE REBELS HAD USED THEIR CATAPULTS AGAINST THE HOUSES IN THE TOWN. HOWEVER, THE AREA RESIDENTS DENY THIS REPORT.</p></body></html>