<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0658"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0658"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BUENOS AIRES"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0658</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0658 (GE)</p><p>BUENOS AIRES, 9 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [EXCERPTS] THE MOTOR TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION [UTA] BEGAN AN INDEFINITE STRIKE AT MIDNIGHT, CONTRADICTING GOVERNMENT ORDERS WHICH STATED THAT THE UTA AND THE ARGENTINE FEDERATION OF AUTOMOTIVE PASSENGER CARRIERS [FATAP] MUST SOLVE THE SALARY PROBLEM THROUGH NEGOTIATIONS.</p><p>THE SITUATION ON THE THIRD DAY OF THE STOPPAGE IS SLIGHTLY BETTER, ALTHOUGH A LARGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE ARE STILL WAITING ON THE STREETS TRYING TO GET ON THE FEW BUSES BEING DRIVEN BY THEIR OWNERS.</p><p>A FEW MINUTES AGO, DEPUTY SECRETARY FOR TRANSPORTATION NESTOR FERNANDEZ ANNOUNCED THAT AT MIDDAY ONLY 30 PERCENT OF THE USUAL NUMBER OF BUSES IN THE FEDERAL CAPITAL WERE WORKING NORMALLY; BECAUSE OF THIS, MEASURES WILL BE ADOPTED TO ENSURE THAT AT LEAST 50 PERCENT OF THE BUSES WILL RUN TODAY.</p><p>REPRESENTATIVES OF THE FEDERAL POLICE, THE BUENOS AIRES PROVINCIAL POLICE, AND THE NATIONAL GENDERMERIE ARE MEETING AT TRANSPORTATION SECRETARIAT OFFICES TO STUDY WAYS OF RESTORING NORMAL BUS SERVICE.</p><p>SUBWAY CHAIRMAN JOSE BARBERO REPORTS THAT HIS SECTOR'S SERVICES HAVE ALSO IMPROVED, AND FIVE SUBWAY LINES ARE FUNCTIONING NORMALLY. ALTHOUGH THE SUBWAY PERSONNEL ARE MEMBERS OF THE UTA, THEY HAVE DECIDED TO SUSPEND THEIR STRIKE.</p><p>THE RAILROAD SERVICE IS NORMAL. MORE COACHES WILL BE PUT INTO SERVICE, AND THE NUMBER OF TRAINS IN SERVICE WILL BE INCREASED, BUT TRAINS OF THE ROCA LINE CONNECTING CONSTITUCION TO LA PLATA THROUGH THE TEMPERLEY STRETCH ARE DELAYED BECAUSE OF A DERAILMENT.</p><p>UTA SECRETARY GENERAL JUAN MANUEL PALACIOS HAS CONFIRMED THAT THE INDEFINITE STRIKE WILL CONTINUE AND THAT THE UTA WILL NOT ACCEPT COMPULSORY NEGOTIATIONS BECAUSE THIS IS NOT A LEGAL SOLUTION TO THE CONFLICT. HE SAYS THAT THIS WOULD MERELY PUT OFF THE PROBLEM FOR A MONTH OR SO. PALACIOS ADDED THAT IT WOULD ONLY CREATE MORE DIFFICULTIES FOR THE WORKERS.</p><p>FATAP DIRECTOR LUIS CARRAL ASSERTED THAT THE BUSINESS SECTOR WILL DOUBLE ITS EFFORTS TO PUT THE BUSES BACK INTO SERVICE. CARRAL SAID THAT IN VIEW OF COMPULSORY NEGOTIATIONS FATAP WILL URGE WORKERS TO RETURN TO THEIR JOBS UNLESS THEY WANT TO BE DISMISSED.</p><p>TRANSPORTATION SECTOR BUSINESSMEN HAVE INFORMED THE TRANSPORTATION SECRETARIAT THAT A FEW DRIVERS ARE RETURNING TO WORK. BUSINESSMEN BELIEVE THAT IN A FEW MORE HOURS 40-50 PERCENT OF THE BUSES WILL BE FUNCTIONING NORMALLY.</p><p>PRESIDENT CARLOS MENEM COMMENTED THIS MORNING ON THE UTA ATTITUDE:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MENEM] THIS IS AN EMERGENCY SITUATION. WE CANNOT PAY MORE THAN WE HAVE. I BELIEVE THAT THE BUSINESSMEN HAVE OFFERED A BASIC SALARY OF AROUND 75,000 AUSTRALES PER MONTH. UNTIL YESTERDAY THIS AMOUNT REPRESENTED NEARLY $100, AND THIS IS A GOOD INCREASE.</p><p>EVIDENTLY, THERE IS A POLITICAL INFILTRATION OF IDEAS THAT ARE NOT SHARED BY ALL ARGENTINE PEOPLE. I DO NOT BELIEVE THE INFILTRATION COMES FROM PERONIST OR RADICAL MOVEMENTS. THIS IS THE WORK OF THE ULTRA-LEFT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>MENEM ASSERTED THAT THOSE WHO WANT TO WORK AND WHO ARE SACRIFICING THEMSELVES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PEOPLE WILL BE REWARDED. HE URGED THEM NOT TO LEAVE THEIR POSTS. MENEM ADDED THAT YESTERDAY MANY MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC ASKED HIM NOT TO GIVE IN. THE PRESIDENT SAID HE HAS DECIDED NOT GIVE IN, NOT BECAUSE HE IS STUBBORN, BUT BECAUSE PEOPLE WHO NEED THE PUBLIC TRANSPORT SERVICES CANNOT BE DEFRAUDED.</p><p>ASKED IF THE RAILROADS THAT JOIN THE STRIKE WILL BE CLOSED DOWN, MENEM SAID:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MENEM] THE RAILROAD LINES THAT STRIKE WILL BE CLOSED.</p><p>[UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] BUT MANY PEOPLE WILL BE LEFT WITHOUT TRANSPORTATION.</p><p>[MENEM] WE WILL FIND A WAY OF GETTING THESE PEOPLE TO THEIR JOBS. WE CANNOT ACCEPT THIS TYPE OF ATTITUDE. OR WOULD YOU PREFER TO SEE THE COUNTRY EXPLODE? [END RECORDING]</p><p>AT 1700 THIS AFTERNOON THE CABINET MEETING THAT STARTED LAST NIGHT WILL BE RECONVENED. THE CABINET MEMBERS ATTENDING THE MEETING WILL ANALYZE THE DIFFICULTIES CREATED BY THE UTA DECISION TO CONTINUE THE STRIKE. THE MEETING WILL BE HELD AT THE [WORDS INDISTINCT] ROOM UNDER THE CHAIRMANSHIP OF INTERIOR MINISTER EDUARDO BAUZA. JUSTICIALIST LEADER ANTONIO CAFFIERO WILL ATTEND THE MEETING. PRES MENEM WILL NOT ATTEND.</p><p>IT HAS BEEN REPORTED THAT 50 BUS COMPANIES HAVE BEEN URGED TO RETURN TO NORMAL WORK; OTHERWISE DECREE 429, WHICH PROVIDES FOR THE TEMPORARY CONFISCATION OF BUSES, WILL BE IMPLEMENTED. THIS DECREE, WHICH HAS BEEN MENTIONED BY PRESIDENT MENEM, ESTABLISHES THAT BUSES WILL BE CONFISCATED AND DRIVEN BY NATIONAL GENDARMERIE PERSONNEL.</p><p>IN A JUSTICIALIST PARTY COMMUNIQUE SIGNED BY ANTONIO CAFFIERO, THE PARTY EXPRESSES ITS SUPPORT FOR THE DECISIONS MADE BY PRESIDENT MENEM.</p><p>COMMANDER ADALINO BARBERI, THE NATIONAL GENDARMERIE DIRECTOR GENERAL, HAS REPORTED THAT THE TRANSPORTATION SECRETARIAT OFFICIALS ARE STILL STUDYING THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN TO CONFISCATE THE BUSES FROM THE OWNERS WHO FAIL TO FOLLOW GOVERNMENT INSTRUCTIONS.</p></body></html>