<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1194"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1194"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CARACAS (VENEZUELA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1194</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1194 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>CARACAS (VENEZUELA), 11 MAR 90 (EL NACIONAL) -- [REPORT] [OJEDA] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL GN REPORTS, VENEZUELA, WHERE BANKING IS LOSELY CONTROLLED AND NO LAWS AGAINST MONEY LAUNDERING EXIST, A SYSTEM OR DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL INVESTIGATIONS IS TO BE ESTABLISHED.</p><p>GN COMMANDER GENERAL MANUEL IBEDACA ROMERO AGREED TO TALK ABOUT THE TOPIC DURING A RECENT INTERVIEW WITH EL NACIONAL.</p><p>[OJEDA] GENERAL, MUCH HAS BEEN SAID ABOUT VENEZUELA'S ALLEGED VULNERABILTY TO THE INTERNATIONAL DRUG TRAFFICKING CARTELS. IS THIS TRUE? IS THERE A DANGER THAT VENEZUELA COULD BECOME AN OPERATIONAL BASE FOR THE COCAINE MAFIA? IS IT TRUE THAT HEAVY INVESTMENTS HAVE BEEN DETECTED NEAR THE BORDER AND OTHER AREAS OF THE COUNTRY, WITH MONEY OF WHICH NO ONE KNOWS THE SOURCE? WHAT IS BEING DONE TO CONTROL THIS FLOW OF CAPITAL?</p><p>[IBEDACA] I SHARE THIS CONCERN. IT IS VERY SIMPLE: WHEN YOU ARE IN A BUILDING OR A HOUSE AND THERE ARE PROBLEMS IN YOUR NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE, THIS OF COURSE DIRECTLY AFFECTS YOU BECAUSE OF THE UNREST, BECAUSE THERE MIGHT BE AN UNCOMFORTABLE SITUATION WHERE FOR EXAMPLE, YOU MIGHT HAVE TO TESTIFY.</p><p>IBEDACA THUS BEGINS HIS EXPLANATIONS WITH A SIMPLE, EASY-TO-UNDERSTAND DOMESTIC ANALOGY. HE ADMITS THAT VENEZUELA "IS IN A SITUATION THAT SHOULD REALLY CATCH OUR ATTENTION, BECAUSE VENEZUELA BORDERS COLOMBIA AND WE KNOW THAT COCA IS PRODUCED MAINLY IN BOLIVIA, PERU, ECUADOR, AND IS PROCESSED IN COLOMBIA. COLOMBIA IS AMERICA'S GREAT COCAINE LABORATORY. DRUG TRAFFICKERS HAVE RECENTLY SUFFERED HARD SETBACKS THROUGH RECENT ACTIONS BY THE COLOMBIAN ARMY AND NATIONAL POLICE IN WHICH THE HEADS OF THESE ORGANIZATIONS HAVE BEEN KILLED AND GREAT AMOUNTS OF MONEY AND COCAINE AND A NUMBER OF AIRPLANES HAVE BEEN SEIZED. TO TRANSPORT WHAT IS LEFT, THEY WILL, OF COURSE, HAVE TO LOOK FOR A BETTER PLACE AND THIS IS WHERE WE HAVE SEVERAL VULNERABILITIES."</p><p>[OJEDA] LIKE WHAT?</p><p>[IBEDACA] THE EXTENSIVE BORDER, THE PLAINS NEAR IT WITH CLANDESTINE LANDING STRIPS; THE PROXIMITY TO EASY-TO-USE PORTS AND AIRPORTS. THROUGH THE ANTIDRUG TRAFFICKING SERVICES AND TOGETHER WITH THE DISIP [DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION SERVICES] AND THE METROPOLITAN POLICE, WE HAVE A PLAN AND WE HAVE TAKEN DEFINITE ACTIONS TO FIGHT IT. AWARE OF THIS, WE HAVE ESTABLISHED A SYSTEM OF INVESTMENT CONTROLS IN THESE STATES NEAR COLOMBIA. WE ARE RECEIVING REPORTS OF PROPERTY REGISTRATIONS, BUT WE NEED TO TAKE MORE EFFECTIVE MEASURES, BECAUSE WE NEED GREATER CONTROL AND SUPERVISION IN THIS AREA, ESPECIALLY COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS.</p><p>IN 1986, THREE YEARS AFTER THE DRUG LAW WENT INTO EFFECT, THE GN'S ANTIDRUG DIVISION MADE A RECORD CONFISCATION OF 29,698 KILOS OF MARIJUANA (NEARLY 30 TONS), A FIGURE THAT DROPPED SIGNIFICANTLY IN 1988, AND INCREASED IN 1989.</p><p>SINCE IT WAS FOUNDED BY GENERAL GERMAN SEPULVEDA SIERRA, THIS OFFICE HAS BEEN IN CHARGE OF COORDINATING AND PLANNING ACTIONS THAT THE GN DEVELOPS AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING, EVEN THOUGH IT IS LIMITED BY THE DRUG LAW AS AN ADJUNCT TO THE TRIBUNALS. IN OTHER WORDS, THE FILES MUST BE TURNED OVER TO THE JUDICIAL TECHNICAL POLICE [PTJ].</p><p>IT IS CURRENTLY CALLED THE DIRECTORATE OF THE SERVICES AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING AND IS DIRECTED BY BRIGADIER GENERAL RAMON GUILLEN DAVILA, WHO ALSO AGREED TO TALK TO EL NACIONAL.</p><p>[GUILLEN] THE FIGHT AGAINST DRUGS HAS BEEN A JOB OF THE GN DURING ALL OF ITS EXISTENCE. I HAVE BEEN IN IT SINCE I WAS A SUBLIEUTENANT. NOW IT IS CALLED THE "MODERN CRIME" AND ONE OF THE MOST DIFFICULT WARS TO FIGHT.</p><p>[OJEDA] PRECISELY BECAUSE OF THAT WAR, THE BIG COLOMBIAN TRAFFICKERS HAVE PROPOSED TO THEIR COUNTRY'S GOVERNMENT FORMULAS TO ACHIEVE PEACE AND RETIRE FROM THE DRUG BUSINESS. ARE THESE PROPOSALS FROM THE DRUG CARTELS SINCERE? WE ASKED THE GENERAL.</p><p>[GUILLEN] I THINK THAT IT IS ONLY A STRATEGY TO GAIN TIME AND SEEK THEIR OWN SOLUTIONS. IT IS NOT STRANGE THAT THEY ARE PRETENDING TO TURN VENEZUELA INTO AN "OPERATIONAL BASE." THERE IS DEMOCRACY AND LIBERTY OF MOVEMENT AND INVESTMENT HERE. IN JUST SAN ANTONIO DEL TACHIRA, THERE ARE 76 EXCHANGE HOUSES AND ONLY ONE MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE LAW. WHEN WE HAVE PRESSURED THE PERACAL TAX REGISTRY, WE GOT COMPLAINTS FROM A LOT OF PEOPLE. THE VENEZUELAN AIR AND HIGHWAY SYSTEM IS VERY FAVORABLE TO THEM. NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES CONNECT WITH EUROPE THROUGH VENEZUELA. A LOT OF MERCHANDISE GOES THROUGH IN TRANSIT, AND WHEN THEY SEIZE A SHIPMENT, WHAT THEY SAY IS THAT THE AIRPLANE "CAME FROM VENEZUELA." [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>