<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1209"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1209"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="PANAMA CITY (PANAMA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1209</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1209 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>PANAMA CITY (PANAMA), 4 APR 90 (CIRCUITO RPC TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] APPROXIMATELY 800 HEAVILY ARMED COLOMBIANS WITHOUT IDENTIFICATION DOCUMENTS WERE DISCOVERED CONDUCTING ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES AT THE BORDER BETWEEN PANAMA AND COLOMBIA, ACCORDING TO GOVERNMENT AND JUSTICE MINISTER RICARDO ARIAS CALDERON.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ARIAS CALDERON] THERE ARE COLOMBIANS WITHOUT IDENTIFICATION AT THE BORDER. THERE ARE REPORTS THAT THEY HAVE BEEN ENGAGED IN ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES. THERE WAS AN ATTACK IN PUERTO OBALDIA, IN WHICH A NATIONAL POLICEMAN WAS KILLED BY SOME COLOMBIAN NATIONALS. THIS IS BEING INVESTIGATED. THE COLOMBIAN NATIONALS HAVE NOT YET BEEN IDENTIFIED. IT IS POSSIBLE THAT BOTH INCIDENTS ARE LINKED. WE ARE CONCERNED ABOUT THIS AND THE GOVERNMENT AND JUSTICE MINISTRY WILL TAKE THE PROPER MEASURES AT THE PROPER TIME.</p><p>[REPORTER] DO YOU KNOW WHAT TYPE OF ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES THEY ARE CONDUCTING THERE NOW?</p><p>[ARIAS CALDERON] THEY ARE PROBABLY CONDUCTING CONTRABAND- RELATED ACTIVITIES. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>