<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0217"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0217"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0217</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0217 (ADS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 28 MAY 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] [TEXT] AT 1400 ON 27 MAY, SPECIAL HONDURAN TROOPS ENTERED SAN ANDRES AND TIERRA AGRIA, SAN GERARDO JURISDICTION, SAN MIGUEL DEPARTMENT, WHEN ARCE BATTALION TROOPS WERE CARRYING OUT AN OPERATION IN THE AREA. THEY CLASHED NEAR EL CHENGUE HILL AND ALONG THE SHORES OF TOROLA RIVER. DURING THIS CLASH, WHICH LASTED 4 HOURS, ARCE BATTALION WAS SUPPORTED BY TWO ROCKET-FIRING HELICOPTERS, A HUGHES 500, AND A A-37 PLANE.</p><p>SALVADORAN TROOPS SUSTAINED NUMEROUS CASUALTIES, INCLUDING A WOUNDED ARCE BATTALION OFFICER. HONDURAN TROOPS WERE PUSHED BACK AND CORNERED IN LOS LLANITOS, SANTA LUCIA JURISDICTION, INTIBUCA DEPARTMENT, HONDURAS. ARCE BATTALION LANDED TROOPS FROM FOUR HELICOPTERS IN THAT VILLAGE. AN HONDURAN HELICOPTER, WHICH WAS EVACUATING CASUALTIES, WAS ATTACKED AND PURSUED 7 KM INTO HONDURAN TERRITORY BY A SALVADORAN HELICOPTER, WHICH FIRED ROCKETS AND MACHINEGUNS.</p><p>ARCE BATTALION, WHICH SURROUNDED HONDURAN TROOPS IN LOS LLANITOS, CAPTURED AN UNDETERMINED NUMBER OF PRISONERS. IN THIS CLASH, RESIDENTS OF THE SAN ANDRES, [WORDS INDISTINCT] CANTONS, AND RESIDENTS OF LOS CASTANOS, LOS LLANITOS, AND LA CEIBITA WERE ROCKETED AND MACHINEGUNNED BY SALVADORAN AIR FORCE HELICOPTERS.</p><p>THERE ARE REPORTS ABOUT PARTIALLY DESTROYED HOMES AND ANIMALS THAT WERE KILLED. WE ARE TRYING TO INVESTIGATE THE NAMES OF THE WOUNDED AND DEAD AMONG AREA RESIDENTS.</p><p>WE URGE THE HONDURAN PEOPLE TO REFLECT ON THE SERIOUSNESS AND REPERCUSSIONS OF THESE CLASHES. THIS IS THE RESULT OF THE HONDURAN ARMY'S POLICY OF INVOLVMENT IN THE SALVADORAN WAR.</p><p>THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] HAD WARNED THAT HONDURAN TROOPS' COOPERATION AND INVOLVEMENT IN THE SALVADORAN WAR, FOLLOWING A U.S. DECISION, WOULD EVENTUALLY LEAD TO A CLASH BETWEEN THE TWO ARMIES. IT IS A SECRET TO NOBODY THAT THE OLIGARCHS WHO HAVE REACHED POWER WITH THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE GOVERNMENT ARE THE SAME ONES WHO PROMOTED THE INVASION OF HONDURAS IN 1969 AND THAT THE OFFICERS WHO WERE RESPONSIBLE AT THE TIME FOR MASSACRES, RAIDS, AND ABUSES AGAINST THE HONDURAN PEOPLE ARE THE SAME ONES WHO ARE IN THE HIERARCHY OF THE SALVADORAN ARMY.</p><p>WE BELIEVE HONDURANS MUST THINK ABOUT THIS SITUATION, BECAUSE THIS LEVEL OF CONFRONTATION WITH INFANTRY TROOPS AND AIRCRAFT WILL SET THE TONE OF THE CONFLICT FOR THE DEFINITION OF THE BORDER CONFLICT OF A GOVERNMENT OF OLIGARCHS WHO HAVE ALWAYS SUPPORTED AN EXPANSIONIST POLICY TOWARD HONDURAS.</p><p>ONCE AGAIN, WE CALL ON THE HONDURAN PEOPLE TO STOP THEIR ARMY'S INVOLVEMENT IN SOMEONE ELSE'S WAR [WORDS INDISTINCT] IN EL SALVADOR, ITS MAIN ENEMY.</p><p>WE CALL ON THE NATIONAL AND INTERNAL PRESS, ESPECIALLY HONDURAN MEDIA, TO VISIT LOS LLANITOS, SANTA LUCIA, INTIBUCA DEPARTMENT, TO CONFIRM THESE SERIOUS INCIDENTS. WE CALL ON HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS TO HELP THE INJURED CIVILIANS.</p><p>[SIGNED] [FMLN] EL SALVADOR, 28 MAY 1989</p></body></html>