<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0361"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0361"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0361</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0361 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 21 AUG 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] EDUARDO MARTINEZ ROMERO, THE ALLEGED "COMPTROLLER" OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, WAS CAPTURED BY COLOMBIAN AUTHORITIES TODAY DURING THE RAID ON A FARM IN THE NORTHERN PART OF THE COUNTRY, IT WAS REPORTED IN BOGOTA.</p><p>IT WAS LEARNED THAT THE ARREST OF MARTINEZ ROMERO, THE MOST IMPORTANT ONE SINCE THE ARMY AND POLICE LAUNCHED AN OFFENSIVE AGAINST THE DRUG TRAFFICKING MAFIA LAST SATURDAY, OCCURRED ON A FARM NEAR TOLU MUNICIPALITY IN SUCRE DEPARTMENT.</p><p>ABOUT 24 PEOPLE WERE ALSO ARRESTED ALONG WITH THE MEDELLIN CARTEL MEMBER. THE CARTEL IS THE LARGEST WORLD COCAINE TRAFFICKING ORGANIZATION, WHICH STAGED A SERIES OF VIOLENT ACTIONS LAST WEEK.</p><p>IN FACT, MERCENARIES OF THAT CRIMINAL ORGANIZATION ASSASSINATED IN LESS THAN 48 HOURS, MAGISTRATE CARLOS VALENCIA GARCIA, ANTIOQUIA POLICE COMMANDER COLONEL WALDEMAR FRANKLIN QUINTERO, AND SENATOR AND PRESIDENTIAL HOPEFUL LUIS CARLOS GALAN, WHO ACCORDING TO THE POLLS, WAS THE FAVORITE TO SUCCEED VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS AS PRESIDENT.</p><p>MARTINEZ ROMERO, ONE OF THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS MOST WANTED BY THE U.S. DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (DEA), HAD MANAGED TO EVADE A PLAN TO CAPTURE HIM IN PANAMA CITY LAST 29 MARCH.</p><p>UNOFFICIAL REPORTS IN BOGOTA INDICATE THAT THE WELL-KNOWN MAFIA MEMBER COULD BE THE FIRST TO BE EXTRADITED TO THE UNITED STATES, IN KEEPING WITH THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT'S NEW PROVISIONS ADOPTED IN VIEW OF THE WAVE OF VIOLENCE. THESE PROVISIONS AUTHORIZE THE EXTRADITION OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS TO OTHER COUNTRIES WITHOUT HAVING TO GO THROUGH THE JUSTICE TRIBUNALS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL REPORTS, MORE THAN 11,000 PEOPLE RELATED TO THE MAFIA HAVE BEEN ARRESTED IN THE INTENSE OPERATIONS CARRIED OUT BY THE COLOMBIAN ARMY AND POLICE, IN THE LARGEST OFFENSIVE EVER LAUNCHED BY COLOMBIAN AUTHORITIES AGAINST THE DRUG TRAFFICKING BANDS.</p><p>THE ACTIONS ARE BEING CARRIED OUT ESPECIALLY IN THE DEPARTMENTS OF ANTIOQUIA, CUNDINAMARCA, AND VALLE DEL CAUCA, WHERE SO-CALLED ELITE PATROLS HAVE TAKEN OVER EXTENSIVE AND SWANK PROPERTIES OWNED BY PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA AND GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA, THE "DRUG LORDS" OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL.</p><p>REPORTS TODAY INDICATE THAT ONE OF THE PRIVATE HOMES BELONGING TO RODRIGUEZ GACHA, ALIAS "THE MEXICAN," WAS RAIDED IN BOGOTA.</p></body></html>