<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0142"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0142"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0142</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0142 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 19 MAR 89 (ACAN) -- [TEXT] AFTER A 1ST HOUR IN WHICH THERE WAS A VERY SMALL TURNOUT AT THE POLLS, THE NUMBER OF SALVADORANS GOING TO VOTE IN THE CAPITAL CITY AND OTHER TOWNS IS INCREASING. THOUSANDS OF VOTERS WERE STANDING IN LINES AT MID-MORNING.</p><p>ARMY AND POLICE UNITS SURROUND THE POLLS WHILE MILITARY HELICOPTERS CONTINUE TO FLY OVER THE CITY.</p><p>FIDEL CHAVEZ MENA OF THE RULING CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY [PDC] TOLD THE PRESS HE HAS RECEIVED REPORTS FROM HIS FOLLOWERS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY TO THE EFFECT THAT 95 PERCENT OF THE POLLS HAVE BEEN INSTALLED AND ARE OPERATING, AFTER OVERCOMING SOME EARLY MORNING PROBLEMS IN SOME OF THE PLACES.</p><p>THE POLLS OPENED AT 0700 (1300 GMT) AND WILL CLOSE AT 1700 (2300 GMT).</p><p>THE BOMB EXPLOSIONS AND SHOOTING HEARD THROUGHOUT THE EARLY HOURS IN SAN SALVADOR WERE NO LONGER HEARD AFTER 1000 (1600 GMT).</p><p>HOWEVER, ATTACKS AGAINST VEHICLES AND CLASHES BETWEEN THE GUERRILLAS AND THE ARMY CONTINUE TO BE REPORTED IN VARIOUS PARTS OF COUNTRY'S INTERIOR.</p><p>THE GUERRILLAS CONTINUE TO BOYCOTT THE ELECTIONS WITH A BLOCKADE OF ALL LAND TRANSPORTATION, BUT THEY HAVE ANNOUNCED THEY WILL NOT DIRECTLY ATTACK THE VOTERS OR THE POLLING STATIONS.</p><p>HIGHWAY CHECKPOINT SOLDIERS KILLED TWO SALVADORAN REPORTERS, ROBERTO NAVAS AND MAURICIO PINEDA, IN TWO SEPARATE SHOOTINGS LATE LAST NIGHT AND EARLY THIS MORNING. NAVAS WAS A PHOTOGRAPHER FROM AN INTERNATIONAL NEWS AGENCY, AND PINEDA WAS A SOUND TECHNICIAN FOR A LOCAL TELEVISION CHANNEL.</p><p>PROMINENT AMONG THE ELECTORS, BOTH IN THE CAPITAL AND IN NEIGHBORING TOWNS, ARE MANY MEMBERS OF THE MAIN OPPOSITION PARTY, THE RIGHTIST NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA), WHO ARE CARRYING BANNERS AND OTHER VISIBLE SIGNS OF THEIR PARTY PREFERENCE.</p><p>SURVEYS HAVE SHOWN ARENA'S CANDIDATE, ALFREDO CRISTIANI, WILL ALMOST CERTAINLY WIN THE ELECTIONS.</p><p>ACAN-EFE CORRESPONDENTS WHO TOURED VOTING BOOTHS IN THE CAPITAL AND OTHER TOWNS SAW SOLDIERS AND POLICEMEN CAREFULLY CHECKING ALL VOTERS BEFORE ALLOWING THEM TO ENTER THE VOTING AREAS.</p><p>VOTERS WHO ARRIVE IN AUTOMOBILES HAVE TO LEAVE THEM MORE THAN 200 METERS AWAY.</p><p>IN APOPA, A TOWN SOME 12 KM NORTH OF SAN SALVADOR, THE VOTING BOOTHS OPENED VERY LATE, BECAUSE THEIR LOCATION WAS CHANGED AT THE LAST MINUTE, WHICH GENERATED PROTESTS FROM THE DELEGATES OF SEVERAL PARTIES AND LED TO BRAWLS BETWEEN ARENA AND PDC SUPPORTERS.</p><p>IN THE EARLY MORNING, MILITARY HELICOPTERS USED FLARES SEVERAL TIMES TO LIGHT UP APOPA AND ITS ENVIRONS, PRESUMABLY TO LOCATE GUERRILLAS.</p><p>MEMBERS OF THE DEMOCRATIC CONVERGENCE, AN ALLIANCE OF LEFTIST PARTIES, SAID IN APOPA THEY HAVE RECEIVED DEATH THREATS TO DISSUADE THEM FROM VOTING.</p><p>IN THE SMALL TOWN OF TONACATEPEQUE, SOME 16 KM NORTHEAST OF SAN SALVADOR, THE DELAY IN BEGINNING THE VOTING WAS ONLY HALF AN HOUR LONG, AND THE ELECTION PROCESS IS PROCEEDING NORMALLY.</p><p>IN SAN RAMON, ANOTHER TOWN CLOSE TO THE CAPITAL WITH 30,000 INHABITANTS, THE VOTING BEGAN AFTER A CONSIDERABLE DEALY BECAUSE OF A GUERRILLA INCURSION IN THE DAWN HOURS.</p><p>ARMY HELICOPTERS FIRED ROCKETS FOR SEVERAL HOURS AT THE SLOPES OF SAN SALVADOR VOLCANO, IN THE NORTHERN PART OF THE CAPITAL, PRESUMABLY AT THE GUERRILLA COLUMNS THAT ATTACKED SAN RAMON.</p></body></html>