<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0570"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0570"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0570</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0570 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 OCT 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] APPROXIMATELY 1,600 SALVADORANS HAVE VOICED THEIR DETERMINATION TO RETURN TO EL SALVADOR ON 17 OCTOBER, WITHOUT THE GOVERNMENT'S APPROVAL, AFTER HAVING REMAINED AS REFUGEES IN A HONDURAN CAMP SINCE THE EARLY 80'S.</p><p>"WE INSIST ON RETURNING TO EL SALVADOR ON 17 OCTOBER. HERE, WE ARE BEING IMPRISONED FOR NO REASON. WE ARE LEAVING BECAUSE OTHERWISE, WE WILL BE KILLED. WE ARE SALVADORANS, AND THAT IS WHY WE WANT TO RETURN TO OUR COUNTRY," SAID ONE OF THE REFUGEES IN A TELEVISION INTERVIEW.</p><p>INTERIOR MINISTER FRANCISCO MERINO WARNED THAT HIS GOVERNMENT WILL NOT ALLOW THE ENTRY OF REFUGEES WHO DO NOT HAVE IDENTIFICATION DOCUMENTS ISSUED BY THE UN HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES [UNHCR].</p><p>"IF THEY ARRIVE ABRUPTLY AT THE SALVADORAN BORDER, WITHOUT THE DOCUMENTS THAT CERTIFY THEY ARE SALVADORANS, THEY CANNONT ENTER THE COUNTRY," MERINO POINTED OUT.</p><p>ACCORDING TO MERINO, WHO IS ALSO THE SALVADORAN VICE PRESIDENT, THE REFUGEES' DETERMINATION TO RETURN WITHOUT THE GOVERNMENT'S APPROVAL IS "EVIDENCE" OF THEIR RELATIONS WITH THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS.</p><p>HOWEVER, THE REFUGEES -- INCLUDING WOMEN, THE ELDERLY, AND CHILDREN -- DENIED ANY LINKS WITH THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) GUERRILLAS.</p><p>MERINO INTERPRETED THE REFUGEES' WISHES TO REPATRIATE IN A MASSIVE AND IMMEDIATE MANNER AS "PLANS TO PROVOKE PROBLEMS THAT WILL AFFECT THE IMAGE OF THE GOVERNMENT WITH REGARD TO THE ISSUE OF RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS."</p><p>ON 10 OCTOBER, AN OFFICIAL COMMISSION, HEADED BY DEPUTY INTERIOR MINISTER COLONEL CARLOS FIGUEROA VISITED THE HONDURAN CAMP AT MESA GRANDE TO TRY TO REACH AN AGREEMENT WITH THE REFUGEES SO THEY COULD PREPARE FOR THEIR REPATRIATION IN 1990 AND AGREE ON THE PLACES WHERE THEY WOULD BE RELOCATED.</p><p>THE NATIONAL COMMISSION WAS UNABLE TO REACH ANY AGREEMENT FOR POSTPONING THE REPATRIATION OF THE SALVADORANS TO 1990.</p><p>THE MILITARY OFFICER DISCLOSED THAT THERE ARE LOGISTICAL PROBLEMS IN PREPARING FOR THE 17 OCTOBER REPATRIATION.</p><p>"THE UNHCR IS NOT PREPARED TO GIVE LOGISTICAL SUPPORT TO THE SALVADORANS WHO WANT TO RETURN NEXT WEEK AND IT NEEDS FOR BOTH PARTIES THE GOVERNMENT AND THE REFUGEES) TO REACH AN AGREEMENT IN ORDER TO GO AHEAD WITH THE REPATRIATION," COL FIGUEROA ADDED.</p><p>ONE OF THE REFUGEES, WHO PREFERRED NOT TO BE IDENTIFIED, CHARGED THAT UNHCR "HAS BEEN UNABLE TO GIVE US TRANSPORTATION AND THE HONDURAN ARMY IS NOT ALLOWING FOOD AND MEDICINE TO REACH US. IN ADDITION, WE ARE THE TARGET OF HONDURAN MILITARY ATTACKS."</p><p>IN MESA GRANDE, THERE ARE 3,718 SALVADORANS, OF WHICH 900 ARE CHILDREN. THESE REFUGEES LEFT EL SALVADOR EARLY IN 1980 WHEN THE WAR WHICH HAS LEFT OVER 70,000 DEAD BROKE OUT.</p><p>THERE ARE ALSO AN ADDITIONAL 13,000 SALVADORANS IN MESA GRANDE WHO WANT TO BE REPATRIATED, SAYS THE NATIONAL COORDINATING BOARD ON REFUGEES, THAT CLAIMS TO REPRESENT THEM.</p><p>THE REFUGEES ARE DEMANDING THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT COMPLY WITH THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PEACE AGREEMENTS THAT WERE SIGNED 2 YEARS AGO IN GUATEMALA, WHICH -- ACCORDING TO THEM -- WOULD ALLOW THEM TO RETURN TO THE COUNTRY WITH GUARANTEES.</p></body></html>