<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1043"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1043"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1043</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1043 (TRW)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 10 JAN 90 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] A MILITARY SOURCE, QUOTING INTELLIGENCE SOURCES, SAID TODAY THAT THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS HAVE ABANDONED THEIR STRICTLY MILITARY GOALS TO INSTEAD DIRECT THEIR ACTIONS AGAINST ECONOMIC TARGETS, WITHIN THEIR USUAL PATTERN OF WEARING DOWN THE ECONOMY.</p><p>THE SOURCE ATTRIBUTED THE CHANGE IN TACTICS TO THE "FAILURE" OF THE OFFENSIVE LAUNCHED BY THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) ON 11 NOVEMBER, IN WHICH SIX GUERRILLA COMMANDERS AND ALL GUERRILLA TROOPS TOOK PART.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE FMLN, THE OFFENSIVE'S GOAL WAS TO NEGOTIATE WITH THE GOVERNMENT ON A "ONE-TO-ONE" BASIS. IN THE OPINION OF THE ARMY, HOWEVER, THE FMLN WAS TRYING TO CAUSE AN INSURRECTION AMONG THE PEOPLE TO GRAB POWER.</p><p>THE SOURCE, WHO REQUESTED ANONYMITY, TOLD ACAN-EFE THAT FOLLOWING THE OFFENSIVE, THE FMLN DECIDED TO "READAPT" THEIR MILITARY CADRES TO THE TRADITIONAL "PROLONGED PEOPLE'S WAR."</p><p>MILITARY INTELLIGENCE BELIEVES THAT WITH THIS CHANGE IN TACTICS, THE GUERRILLAS ARE TRYING TO "MAINTAIN THEIR MILITARY PRESENCE AND THUS RAISE THE FIGHTERS MORALE FOLLOWING THE DISBANDING OF IMPORTANT MILITARY CADRES."</p><p>FOLLOWING THE SUSPENSION OF THE UNILATERAL TRUCE DECREED BY THE FMLN BETWEEN 23 DECEMBER AND 2 JANUARY, THE GUERRILLAS RESTARTED THEIR ACTIONS AGAINST THE COUNTRY'S ECONOMY BY BLOWING-UP THE COUNTRY'S POWER GRID AND SHOPS IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>ECONOMIC LOSSES LAST YEAR DUE TO GUERRILLA SABOTAGE TO THE TRANSPORT, POWER AND TELEPHONE SYSTEMS, AND OTHER INFRASTRUCTURES SURPASSED $100 MILLION, ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL SOURCES.</p><p>THE SOURCE SAID THAT THE MILITARY RESTRUCTURE ENCOMPASSED THE SIX ORGANIZATIONS THAT COMPRISE THE FMLN: THE REVOLUTIONARY PARTY OF CENTRAL AMERICAN WORKERS (PRTC), THE NATIONAL RESISTANCE (RN), THE SALVADORAN COMMUNIST PARTY (PCS), THE POPULAR LIBERATION FORCES (FPL), THE ARMED FORCES OF LIBERATION (FAL), AND THE PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY ARMY (ERP).</p><p>ACCORDING TO MILITARY INTELLIGENCE, THE PRTC, RN, AND THE PCS NOW OPERATE IN SAN SALVADOR AND OTHER IMPORTANT CITIES OF THE COUNTRY, WHILE THE FPL OPERATES IN THE CENTRAL REGION, THE ERP IN THE NORTHEAST, AND THE FAL IN THE SOUTHEAST.</p></body></html>