<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1088"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1088"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1088</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1088 (UNISYS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 4 FEB 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [INTERVIEW WITH NORTH SANTANDER GOVERNOR EDUARDO ASSAF ELCURE BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [REPORTER] WE ARE SAYING HELLO AT THIS HOUR TO NORTH SANTANDER GOVERNOR EDUARDO ASSAF ELCURE. DR ASSAF, GOOD DAY.</p><p>[ASSAF] GOOD MORNING, RCN [STATION CALL SIGN].</p><p>[REPORTER] MR. GOVERNOR, WHAT INFORMATION DOES THE DEPARTMENTAL ADMINISTRATION HAVE ABOUT EVENTS DEALING WITH PUBLIC ORDER, SUCH AS REGRETTABLE INCIDENT IN ARBOLEDAS [MURDER OF ARBOLEDAS MAYOR PEDRO JESUS HERNANDEZ].</p><p>[ASSAF] THE OFFICIAL REPORTS ON THE REGRETTABLE CASE IN ARBOLEDAS AT NOON TODAY, AND THOSE CARRIED BY RCN AND OTHER STATIONS, DESCRIBING THE WAY IN WHICH MAYOR PEDRO JESUS HERNANDEZ WAS MURDERED WHILE INAUGURATING A DINING HALL FOR CHILDREN AT JUAN BUENO, ARBOLEDAS MUNICIPALITY, LEAD US TO BELIEVE THAT SOMETHING EXTREMELY SERIOUS IS HAPPENING. HERNANDEZ WAS GOING TO INAUGURATE ON 20-25 FEBRUARY FOUR OR FIVE WORKS THAT ARE IMPORTANT FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMUNITIES AND HAD BEEN DEMANDED BY THEM FOR A LONG TIME. THIS LEADS US TO BELIEVE THAT THE SITUATION IS REALLY DIFFICULT AND THAT OTHER MEASURES WILL HAVE TO BE ADOPTED TO PREVENT A CONTINUATION OF THESE REGRETTABLE ACTIONS, WHICH DESTABILIZE PUBLIC ORDER IN THE DEPARTMENT.</p><p>I THINK THAT AFTER THE PEACE TALKS WITH M-19 [19 APRIL MOVEMENT] ARE CONCLUDED NEXT WEEK, DR. OCTAVIO PARDO SHOULD IN SOME WAY PROMOTE A TRUCE WITH THE NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY [ELN] AND THE EPL [POPULAR LIBERATION ARMY] TO SEE IF IT IS POSSIBLE TO BEGIN A DIALOGUE AND KEEP THE BLOODSHED FROM CONTINUING IN OUR COUNTRY, MOST PARTICULARLY IN OUR DEPARTMENT. OVER THE COURSE OF A MONTH, TWO MAYORS, WHO WERE CHARACTERIZED AS THE FIGHTINGEST MAYORS -- IN THE SENSE THAT THEY LAUNCHED, EXECUTED, AND COMPLETED WORKS -- HAVE BEEN KILLED IN OUR DEPARTMENT.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR. GOVERNOR, HOW MANY MAYORS DID YOU SAY HAVE BEEN KILLED DURING THAT TIME?</p><p>[ASSAF] WHAT DID YOU SAY?</p><p>[REPOERTER] MR. GOVERNOR, DO YOU BELIEVE THAT, FOR INSTANCE, CIVIC OR POLITICAL LEADERS IN THE AREA OF NORTH SANTANDER CAN PARTICIPATE IN TALKS WITH THE EPL AND THE ELN TO MAKE SERIOUS PROPOSALS TO THE GOVERNMENT ABOUT A POSSIBLE TRUCE, AS YOU SUGGEST?</p><p>[ASSAF] IN VIEW OF OUR CURRENT SITUATION, THAT IS, IN VIEW OF THE FACT THAT A MONTH AGO THE MAYOR OF ABREGO WAS KILLED AND THE ARBOLEDAS MAYOR WAS KILLED YESTERDAY, I BELIEVE THAT THE COUNTRY IS PLEASED THAT THE PACIFICATION PROCESS WITH M-19 WILL END THIS WEEK. SO, WHY NOT LOOK FOR AVENUES OF COMMUNICATION WITH THE [1-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] AND THE EPL TO ESTABLISH A TRUCE, AT LEAST DURING THIS ELECTORAL PERIOD, SO THAT ALL COLOMBIANS, ESPECIALLY THOSE OF NORTH SANTANDER, CAN FREELY EXERCISE THEIR SOVEREIGN RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE IN AN ELECTION AND EXPRESS THEIR SATISFACTION WITH OR CONDEMNATION OF THE PEOPLE WHO ARE CURRENTLY GOVERNING THE MUNICIPALITIES? [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>