<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0629"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0629"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0629</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0629 (GE)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 1 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH PRESIDENT DANIEL ORTEGA BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [TEXT] [REPORTER] MR PRESIDENT, REGARDING POINT NO. 6 IN WHICH YOU SPOKE ABOUT SPECIFIC RESULTS CONCERNING THE DEMOBILIZATION OF THE CONTRAS, TO WHAT SPECIFIC AMOUNTS IS THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT REFERRING TO? ARE YOU SAYING THAT 20 PERCENT, 10 PERCENT OR 50 PERCENT OF THE CONTRAS HAVE TO BE DEMOBILIZED IN ORDER FOR THE CEASE-FIRE TO BE IMPLEMENTED AGAIN?</p><p>[ORTEGA] THE IMPORTANT POINT IS TO BEGIN IMPLEMENTING THE PLAN. THEN, THE NUMBER OF CONTRAS THAT ARE DEMOBILIZED WOULD BE ESTABLISHED ACCORDING TO THE DECISIONS MADE AT THE UNITED NATIONS. THAT IS, HOW MANY CONTRAS CAN BE DEMOBILIZED RIGHT AWAY, HOW MANY OF THEM WILL BE RETURNING TO NICARAGUA, HOW MANY WILL GO TO THIRD COUNTRIES. THEREFORE, TO THE EXTENT THE PLAN IS BEING IMPLEMENTED, WE WILL BE WILLING TO REINSTATE THE CEASE-FIRE.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR PRESIDENT, UP UNTIL LAST WEEK, THE U.S. CONGRESS DISCUSSED GIVING MORE AID TO THE CONTRAS. NO ONE EVEN WANTED TO TALK ABOUT THE CONTRAS, IT WAS A STALE ISSUE. HOWEVER, IT HAS BECOME A BURNING ISSUE OVERNIGHT AND EVERYBODY IS NOW TALKING ABOUT AID FOR THE CONTRAS AND EVEN THE POSSIBILITY OF GIVING MILITARY AID TO THEM. LAST NIGHT, THE U.S. SENATE ISSUED A RESOLUTION STRONGLY CONDENMING THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT. MY QUESTIONS ARE: FIRST, WHY HAS THERE BEEN SUCH A SUDDEN AND UNEXPECTED CHANGE. SECOND, WHAT IS YOUR MESSAGE TO THE U.S. CONGRESS.</p><p>[ORTEGA] U.S. CONGRESSMEN ARE ONLY CONCERNED ABOUT THEIR REELECTION. WITH THE DUE RESPECT THAT SOME OF THEM DESERVE, U.S. CONGRESSMEN ARE ONLY WORRIED ABOUT THEIR REELECTION. I HAVE TALKED TO MANY OF THEM HERE AND THEY ARE CYNICAL. THEY TELL ME: I DISAGREE WITH THAT BUT I HAVE TO THINK ABOUT THOSE WHO ELECTED ME. IF THOSE WHO ELECTED ME HAVE A DIFFERENT OPINION, THEN I HAVE TO EXPRESS SUPPORT FOR THEIR VIEWPOINTS AND FORGET ABOUT MY OWN OPINION. LET US NOT MISLEAD OURSELVES. YOU KNOW VERY WELL HOW U.S. CONGRESSMEN ACT. THEREFORE, IT WAS EASIER FOR THEM TO SIMPLY APPROVE FUNDS FOR THE CONTRAS AS THEY HAD DONE -- BECAUSE THE CONGRESS HAD APPROVED THE SO-CALLED HUMANITARIAN AID FOR THE CONTRAS [WORDS INDISTINCT] AND LET THE WAR CONTINUE, AND LEAVE THE BURDEN ON THE CENTRAL AMERICAN GOVERNMENTS, ESPECIALLY ON THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT AND PEOPLE WHO ARE SUFFERING THE EFFECTS OF THIS WAR. THEREFORE, WE HAVE BEEN REPORTING THE KILLINGS, THE ASSASSINATIONS, THE CRIMES, THE CONTRAS ATTACKS, AND THE YANKEE CONGRESS HAS REMAINED SILENT.</p><p>THEREFORE, WE SEE AN EASY-GOING ATTITUDE IN THE U.S. CONGRESS. OBVIOUSLY, WHEN WE ANNOUNCE WE ARE NOT GOING TO EXTEND THE CEASE-FIRE THE U.S. CONGRESS REACTS IMMEDIATELY. THEY REACT BECAUSE THEY ARE FULLY AWARE THAT THEY ARE MEDDLING IN NICARAGUAN POLITICS. THEY WILL HAVE TO RESUME DISCUSSIONS ON THE NICARAGUAN ISSUE, AND THEY DO NOT WANT TO DISCUSS THE NICARAGUAN ISSUE AGAIN. IT WAS EASY TO SET ASIDE THE NICARAGUAN ISSUE AND TO SIMPLY APPROVE FUNDS FOR THE CONTRAS SO THE CONTRAS COULD CONTINUE KILLING NICARAGUANS WHILE EVERYTHING ELSE REMAINS CALM -- LET THE PEACE PLAN CONTINUE AS FAR AS IT CAN AND AS FAR AS PRESIDENT BUSH ALLOWS IT TO DEVELOP. THE U.S. CONGRESSMEN CAN THEN FORGET ABOUT THE NICARAGUAN ISSUE AND WORK ON OTHER DOMESTIC OR INTERNATIONAL ISSUES IN WHICH THEY ARE MORE INTERESTED.</p><p>HOWEVER, WHEN NICARAGUA SAYS: WE WILL NOT EXTEND THE CEASE-FIRE, THEN THEY RAISE AN OUTCRY. WHY DO THEY RAISE AN OUTCRY? BECAUSE THEY KNOW THEY WILL HAVE TO RESUME DISCUSSIONS ON THE NICARAGUAN ISSUE. MOREOVER, THERE MIGHT BE A FEVERISH CONGRESSMAN WHO WILL PROPOSE GIVING MILITARY AID TO THE CONTRAS. WELL, LET THEM DISCUSS MILITARY AID. DO THEY WANT TO DISCUSS MILITARY AID, WELL THAT IS THEIR PROBLEM. WE SIMPLY BELIEVE THAT THE WAY THE YANKEE CONGRESS ACTIONS WILL EASE OR HINDER THE ELECTORAL PROCESS. THE DEVELOPMENT OF ELECTIONS ON 25 FEBRUARY WILL DEPEND NOW ON THE YANKEE CONGRESS AND ON THE YANKEE PRESIDENT. IT WILL DEPEND ON THEM. WE HAVE THE DESIRE TO DO IT. HOWEVER, WHETHER OR NOT THE ELECTIONS ARE HELD ON 25 FEBRUARY WILL DEPEND ON THEM. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>