<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0209"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0209"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0209</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0209 (ADS)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 16 MAY 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] A U.S. HELICOPTER USED TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO THE GUATEMALAN ARMY CRASHED THIS EVENING WHEN TRYING TO LAND AT THE MILITARY AIRPORT IN GUATEMALA CITY.</p><p>ACCORDING TO INITIAL REPORTS, SEVERAL PASSENGERS WERE INJURED, INCLUDING U.S. PERSONNEL, WHO WERE TAKEN TO THE MILITARY HOSPITAL IN GUATEMALA CITY.</p><p>ACCORDING TO INFORMATION SUPPLIED BY THE GUATEMALAN ARMY, THE U.S. AIRCRAFT WAS BEING USED TO HELP CARRY FOOD AND SUPPLIES TO TOWNS THAT ARE HARD TO REACH.</p><p>ACCORDING TO REPORTS SENT BY GUERRILLA GROUPS TO GUATEMALAN NEWSPAPERS -- WHICH HAVE PUBLISHED THESE REPORTS -- THESE FLIGHTS ARE ALL PART OF THE MILITARY SUPPORT IN THE FIGHT AGAINST THE SUBVERSIVES.</p><p>THERE IS NO INFORMATION YET ON THE TYPE OF AIRCRAFT INVOLVED IN THE ACCIDENT, WHICH RESULTED WHEN "IT LOST POWER" BEFORE LANDING, ACCORDING TO INITIAL REPORTS. U.S. ARMY "CHINOOK" HELICOPTERS ARE USED IN GUATEMALA FOR VARIOUS OPERATIONS CARRIED OUT BETWEEN GUATEMALA CITY AND AREAS FAR DISTANT FROM THE CAPITAL.</p><p>THIS IS THE FOURTH AIRCRAFT ACCIDENT OCCURRING IN RECENT MONTHS. A GUATEMALAN AIR FORCE (FAG) "PILATUS" AIRPLANE CRASHED SOME MONTHS AGO IN CHIMALTENANGO PROVINCE, AND ITS PILOT DIED IN THE ACCIDENT. A FAG HELICOPTER RECENTLY PLUNGED INTO THE PETEN ITZA LAKE, LOCATED IN NORTHERN GUATEMALA; TWO CREWMEN DIED AND TWO SURVIVED THE ACCIDENT.</p><p>THE ARMY'S OFFICIAL VERSION REPORTED THAT THESE ACCIDENTS WERE CAUSED BY BAD WEATHER OR MECHANICAL FAILURE. GUERRILLA REPORTS, WHICH HAVE BEEN PUBLISHED IN LOCAL NEWSPAPERS, SAY THAT THE AIRCRAFT WERE SHOT DOWN BY THEIR ANTIAIRCRAFT UNITS.</p></body></html>