<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1198"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1198"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1198</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1198 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 27 MAR 90 -- [COMMENTARY] [LEONID LEVCHENKO] [TEXT] OBVIOUS PROGRESS HAS BEEN MADE IN SOLVING THE REGIONAL CONFLICT IN CENTRAL AMERICA. VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ WILL MEDIATE A MEETING IN CARACAS BETWEEN SALVADORAN REBELS AND A GOVERNMENT DELEGATION. CONFIDENTIAL NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN GUATEMALAN GUERRILLAS AND REPRESENTATIVES OF THE NATIONAL RECONCILIATION COMMISSION WILL ALSO BE HELD IN THE NORWEGIAN CAPITAL, OSLO.</p><p>LISTEN WHAT OUR COMMENTATOR LEONID LEVCHEKO HAS TO SAY:</p><p>THESE TWO MEETINGS HAVE ONE POINT IN COMMON: BOTH HAVE BEEN MADE POSSIBLE THANKS TO THE INITIATIVE AND THE MEDIATION OF THE MOST DIVERSE CIRCLES, WHICH ARE INTERESTED IN PUTTING OUT THE FIRE IN CENTRAL AMERICA. THE CARACAS MEETING COINCIDES WITH THE START TODAY OF THE OFFICIAL VISIT BY SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI.</p><p>VENEZUELAN CHIEF OF STATE CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ, WHO WELCOMED CRISTIANI, HAS ALREADY HELD TALKS WITH THE SALVADORAN REBELS DELEGATION.</p><p>THE VENEZUELAN CHIEF OF STATE WILL ACT AS MEDIATOR IN THE DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND THE REBELS WHEN THEY SIT AT THE NEGOTIATING TABLE. THE OSLO MEETING WAS CONCEIVED AT THE INITIATIVE OF THE LUTHERAN AND CATHOLIC CHURCHES. THIS IS A BIG ADVANCE IF ONE CONSIDERS THAT THE FIRST AND LAST DIRECT NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT AND THE GUERRILLAS TOOK PLACE IN OCTOBER 1987 IN SPAIN. THEY WERE THEN SUSPENDED AND NEVER RESUMED.</p><p>[PASSAGE INDISTINCT] BUT IT HAS NOT BEEN EASY TO ADVANCE TOWARD NATIONAL RECONCILIATION IN ALL THE COUNTRIES INVOLVED IN THE CENTRAL AMERICAN CONFLICT. BEFORE THE ESQUIPULAS AGREEMENT WAS SIGNED IN 1967 BY THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS, MANY INTERNATIONAL FORCES, WHICH HINDERED A SOLUTION, WERE INVOLVED IN THE CENTRAL AMERICAN CONFLICT.</p><p>THE MILITARY CHIEFS OF EL SALVADOR AND GUATEMALA ALSO REJECTED THE NEGOTIATION PROCESS, ASSUMING THAT THEY COULD DEFEAT THE REBEL MOVEMENT. IN FACT, DURING 10 YEARS OF CIVIL WAR MORE THAN 70,000 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KILLED IN EL SALVADOR AND IN NEARLY 30 YEARS OF CONFLICT IN GUATEMALA MORE THAN 100,000 HAVE BEEN KILLED.</p><p>IT IS OBVIOUS THAT THE FRATRICIDAL WAR IS ABSURD BOTH IN EL SALVADOR AND IN GUATEMALA. IT IS TIME THAT, FOLLOWING THE EXAMPLE OF NICARAGUA, OTHER COUNTRIES CONTRIBUTE TO RESTORE PEACE IN THE AREA. THIS IS WHY THE REPORTS COMING FROM CARACAS AND OSLO HAVE BEEN GREETED WITH GREAT INTEREST. IT IS CLEAR THAT A JUST SOLUTION IS POSSIBLE IN CENTRAL AMERICA IF ONLY THE PRINCIPLES OF INTERNATIONAL LAW ARE STRICTLY FOLLOWED AND THE COUNTRIES' SOVEREIGNTY IS RESPECTED BY NOT MEDDLING IN THE INTERNAL AFFAIRS OF OTHER STATES.</p><p>THIS IS THE ESSENCE OF THE SOVIET VIEW ON CENTRAL AMERICA.</p></body></html>