<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0527"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0527"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0527</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0527 (UMASS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 26 SEP 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] IN A FIRST RULING, CRIMINAL JUDGE 62 OF RIONEGRO MUNICIPALITY, NORTHWESTERN ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT, HAS ACQUITTED DRUG TRAFFICKERS PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA AND GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA OF CHARGES OF MASTERMINDING THE MURDER OF ATTORNEY GENERAL CARLOS MAURO HOYOS AND THE KIDNAPPING OF BOGOTA CITY MAYOR ANDRES PASTRANA.</p><p>THE RULING WAS ISSUED ON THE NIGHT OF 25 SEPTEMBER AND REVEALED ON 26 SEPTEMBER.</p><p>HOYOS WAS KIDNAPPED ON 25 JANUARY 1988 AND WAS FOUND DEAD 8 HOURS LATER NEAR THE MEDELLIN AIRPORT. PASTRANA WAS KIDNAPPED ON 22 JANUARY 1988 BUT WAS RESCUED BY THE ARMY 3 DAYS LATER.</p><p>THE "EXTRADITABLES" CLAIMED CREDIT AT THE TIME FOR THESE TWO ACTIONS.</p><p>IN HIS FIRST RULING, JUDGE FRANCISCO CARDENAS SAID "THERE IS NOT SUFFICIENT GROUNDS OR EVIDENCE" FOR LINKING ESCOBAR GAVIRIA AND RODRIGUEZ GACHA, THE MAIN CHIEFTAINS OF THE MEDELLIN DRUG CARTEL, TO THE CRIMES. THE EXTRADITION OF THE DRUGPINS HAS BEEN REQUESTED BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT.</p><p>THE PROSECUTOR IN THE CASE HAS APPEALED JUDGE CARDENAS' RULING BEFORE THE SUPERIOR TRIBUNAL OF MEDELLIN, WHICH WILL SOON ISSUE A PRONOUNCEMENT ON THE VALIDITY OF THE COURT RULING.</p></body></html>