<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0693"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0693"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0693</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0693 (GE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 12 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] SALVADORAN, CENTRAL AMERICAN, LATIN AMERICAN BROTHERS: YOU ARE LISTENING TO RADIO VENCEREMOS, THE VOICE OF PEOPLE WHO ARE STRUGGLING WITH DETERMINATION TO ATTAIN DEMOCRACY. WE REPORT TO OUR FIGHTERS THAT HAVE BEEN ABLE TO TUNE IN, TO ALL OUR PEOPLE, AND THE PEOPLE OF THE WORLD THAT THE FLMN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] FORCES HAVE CONDUCTED MORE THAN 18 HOURS OF HEROIC COMBAT IN SAN SALVADOR, THE COUNTRY'S MAIN CITIES, AND IN THE HIGHWAYS. AT THIS POINT, OUR MEN HAVE DOWNED TWO HELICOPTERS AND DESTROYED THREE MORE HELICOPTERS THAT WERE ON LAND. THIS BRINGS THE TOTAL NUMBER OF HELICOPTERS TAKEN OUT OF COMBAT TO FIVE. WE HAVE ALSO DAMAGED TWO MORE ARMY ARMED VEHICLES AND THIS BRINGS THE TOTAL TO HALF A DOZEN. THESE NUMBERS HAVE BEEN CONFIRMED. WE HAVE ALSO DESTROYED 12 LIGHT TANKS. OUR PERSONNEL HAVE TAKEN CONTROL OF THE MUNICIPAL MAYORS' OFFICES IN SEVERAL PLACES THROUGHTOUT THE COUNTRY, INCLUDING THE CAPITAL CITY. ALSO, IN SAN SALVADOR WE HAVE TAKEN SEVERAL PRISONERS OF WAR. THEY ARE PART OF THE REPRESSIVE FORCES OF THE NATIONAL POLICE AND THE BELLOSO BATTALION. WE HAVE ALSO CONFISCATED A LARGE SUPPLY OF WAR MATERIEL FROM THE FASCISTS ENEMY FORCES. THESE WEAPONS ARE NOW IN THE HANDS OF OUR PEOPLE AND ARE NOW GOING TO BE USED TO SHOOT THE FASCISTS. THESE WEAPONS ARE IN THE HANDS OF PEOPLE WHO ARE WILLING TO USE THEM TO ATTAIN JUSTICE FOR THE MURDERS OF FEBE ELIZABETH VELASQUEZ, OTHER COOPERATIVISTS, THE TEN UNION LEADERS, AND MSGR ARNULFO ROMERO. THESE WEAPONS IN THE HANDS OF THE PEOPLE ARE A GUARANTEE FOR JUSTICE, DEMOCRACY, AND PEACE.</p><p>ATTENTION, ATTENTION, THIS IS LAST MINUTE INFORMATION THAT HAS BEEN RECEIVED BY RADIO VENCEREMOS. ATTENTION SALVADORANS AND PRESS AGENCIES THAT ARE MONITORING OUR GUERRILLA RADIO STATION. WE HAVE RECEIVED REPORTS THAT BOMBINGS CONTINUE IN SAN SALVADOR. INDISCRMINATE BOMBING CONTINUES IN SAN SALVADOR. WE HAVE RECEIVED REPORTS OF INDISCRIMINATE BOMBING IN ZACAMIL, SOYAPANGO, AND SAN MARCOS NEIGHBORHOODS. THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE LIVE IN THESE AREAS. THESE NEIGHBORHOODS ARE DENSELY POPULATED. WE ALSO RECEIVED THE REPORT THAT A DEATH SQUAD HEADED BY COLONEL FRANCISCO ELENA FUENTES HAS AGAIN TAKEN ACTIONS AGAINST A CIVILIAN POPULATION JUST BECAUSE THEY ARE UNABLE TO COMBAT OUR PERSONNEL. THIS SQUAD ENTERED THE SALVADORAN UNIVERSITY FROM THE AREA WHERE THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE IS LOCATED. WE MUST NOTE THAT THE UNIVERSITY IS NEAR THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE HEADQUARTERS. THEY CAPTURED 13 CIVILIANS, BLINDFOLDED, TIED, AND TOOK THEM INTO THAT MILITARY HEADQUARTERS. ELENA FUENTES -- THAT REPUDIABLE MURDERER, THAT ASSASSIN GORRILLA -- COWARDLY ATTACKS THE CIVILIAN POPULATION AS HE IS UNABLE TO COMBAT THE PEOPLE'S ARMED PERSONNEL. FUENTES IS UNABLE TO STRIKE BACK SO HE ATTACKS MOTHERS AND UNION MEMBERS. THIS IS WHAT THIS TWO-BIT COLONEL IS ACCUSTOMED TO DOING. HE STRIKES OUT AT THE PEOPLE. LET HIM COME OUT AND FIGHT THE REBELS IN SAN SALVADOR. OUR PEOPLE ARE SICK AND TIRED OF DEATH SQUADS, POVERTY, REPRESSION, AND FASCIST TOTALITARIANISM. WE ARE TOTALLY DECIDED AND FIRMLY DETERMINED TO OVERCOME THE FASCIST LATANDONA OFFICERS [NAME GIVEN TO 1966 GRADUATES OF CAPTAIN GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY ACADEMY]. SALVADORAN PEOPLE: AS ONE STRONG FIST, LET US ALL JOIN TOGETHER AND STRIKE THE FASCISTS. LET'S TAKE IT TO THE HILT.</p></body></html>