<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1245"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1245"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1245</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1245 (BOEING)</p><p>BOGOTA, 27 APR 90 [INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [SPEECH] [COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO] [TEXT] FELLOW COUNTRYMEN: THE MURDER OF CARLOS PIZARRO SOUGHT BOTH TO DISRUPT THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ELECTORAL PROCESS, AS WELL AS TO DESTROY THE PROCESS OF RECONCILIATION THAT THE GOVERNMENT AND M- 19 [19 APRIL MOVEMENT] HAD CAREFULLY BUILT, SURPASSING NUMEROUS OBSTACLES. IT ALSO SEEKS TO WEAKEN THE STATE AND MAKE COLOMBIANS LOSE FAITH IN DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS. HOWEVER, THOSE WHO FOMENT VIOLENCE WILL NOT MANAGE TO WEAKEN A STRONG DEMOCRACY THAT IS SUPPORTED BY ALL COLOMBIANS OR TO DESTROY THE PATH OF PEACE THAT WE HAVE BUILT AFTER SO MANY DIFFICULTIES.</p><p>TWO OF THESE DIFFICULTIES STEM BACK MORE THAN FIVE DECADES. THE FIRST DIFFICULTY WAS TO BUILD AN ATMOSPHERE OF PEACE IN A COUNTRY WHERE THE VIOLENCE WE HAVE INHERITED FLARED UP IN THE FIFTIES, AND AFTER HAVING EVOLVED, IT HAS TAKEN ON DIFFERENT FORMS, SUCH AS NARCO-TERRORISM AND BANDS OF HIRED ASSASSINS ENCOURAGED BY GROUPS OF THE EXTREME RIGHT.</p><p>THE SECOND OBSTACLE, ALONG WITH THE PREVIOUS ONE, IS THE LACK OF TOLERANCE FOR POLITICAL PLURALISM. EVEN PROGRESSIVE IDEAS ARE MANY TIMES CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BY PEOPLE WHO DO NOT REALIZE THAT THE COLD WAR IS OVER. A PLURALIST DEMOCRACY IS NOT AFRAID OF COMMUNISM. ON THE CONTRARY, IT ACCEPTS COMMUNISM, BUT IT DOES NOT ACCEPT VIOLENCE, REGARDLESS OF ITS SOURCE. THE USE OF WEAPONS BOTH TO DEFEND AN IDEOLOGY, AS WELL AS TO FIGHT AGAINST IT, IS UNACCEPTABLE IN A PLURALIST DEMOCRACY.</p><p>THE PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE TRAGIC MURDER OF CARLOS PIZARRO WILL NOT MANAGE TO DESTROY WHAT HAS BEEN BEEN ACHIEVED, THAT IS, A CLEAR, VIABLE, AND DEFINED PATH TO PEACE. THE OBLIGATION WE HAVE AHEAD OF US AND THAT WE WILL CARRY OUT UNITED IS TO KEEP THAT PATH OF PEACE OPEN.</p><p>ALL COLOMBIANS ADMIRE THE PEACE INITIATIVES OF THE M-19, AND WE SHARE THE GRIEF OF THE RELATIVES AND FOLLOWERS OF CARLOS PIZARRO, BECAUSE THEIR SADNESS AND ANGER IS SHARED BY ALL COLOMBIANS WHO LOVE PEACE. FACTS SHOW THAT THE M-19 MEMBERS WISELY ADOPTED THE DECISION TO REJOIN DEMOCRACY AND REMAIN IN DEMOCRACY, TO STRUGGLE FOR PEACE, AND TO PROMOTE LEGALLY THE REFORMS THEY CONSIDER NECESSARY.</p><p>WHEN THEY ABANDONED THEIR WEAPONS, THEY DID NOT ABANDON THE STRUGGLE FOR THEIR IDEALS. THEY HAVE ALL THEIR RIGHTS, BECAUSE THEY ARE NO LONGER A GUERRILLA GROUP. M-19 IS NOW A POLITICAL PARTY, WITH ALL RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF A POLITICAL PARTY AND WHOSE IDEAS SHOULD BE TOLERATED. THOSE WHO, THROUGH VIOLENCE, ARE TRYING TO BRING DOWN THE M-19 FLAG AND TO PREVENT ITS CANDIDATES FROM RUNNING IN THE ELECTIONS AND TO STOP THEM FROM CONDUCTING POLITICAL CAMPAIGNING, ARE NOT JUST THE ENEMIES OF THAT MOVEMENT, THEY ARE THE ENEMIES OF PEACE. THEY ARE TRYING TO DESTROY THE PATH THAT WAS BUILT FOR THE REINCORPORATION OF THE GUERRILLA GROUPS INTO CIVILIAN LIFE.</p><p>THE MATERIAL AND INTELLECTUAL AUTHORS OF CARLOS PIZARRO'S MURDER ARE THE ENEMIES OF DEMOCRACY, BECAUSE THEY HOPE TO SABOTAGE THE ELECTIONS AND PREVENT NEW OPPORTUNITIES FOR POLITICAL PARTICIPATION. THE GOVERNMENT WILL NOT ALLOW THE VOICE OF M-19 TO BE SILENCED. THEREFORE, THE GOVERNMENT YESTERDAY REQUESTED AIRTIME ON TELEVISION SO THAT ANTONIO NAVARRO WOLFF, LEADER OF THAT PARTY, COULD EXPRESS HIS OPINIONS TO ALL COLOMBIANS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>