<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1122"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1122"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1122</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1122 (UNISYS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 17 FEB 90 (AFP) -- [TEXT] OFFICIAL SPOKESMEN REPORTED HERE TODAY THAT THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT AND M-19 [19 APRIL MOVEMENT] WILL SIGN A FINAL PEACE AGREEMENT ON 19 FEBRUARY.</p><p>THE SOURCES ADDED THAT, THIS WEEKEND, INTERIOR MINISTER CARLOS LEMOS AND M-19 LEADER CARLOS PIZARRO WILL AGREE ON THE TIME FOR THE CEREMONY, WHICH WILL BE HELD AT THE NATIONAL CAPITOL.</p><p>THE SIGNING OF THE AGREEMENT--WHICH INVOLVES THE DEMOBILIZATION OF M-19, THE DELIVERY OF ITS WEAPONS TO A COMMISSION FROM THE SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL, AND THE REINCORPORATION OF ITS MEMBERS INTO CIVILIAN LIFE--HAS BEEN REPEATEDLY POSTPONED.</p><p>GOVERNMENT SPOKESMEN ADDED THAT AFTER THE SIGNING OF THE DOCUMENT, PIZARRO AND HIS DEPUTY AND IDEOLOGIST ANTONIO NAVARRO WILL HOLD A NEWS CONFERENCE TO EXPLAIN THE PROGRAM THAT THE ORGANIZATION, WHICH IS IN THE PROCESS OF BECOMING LEGAL, WILL CARRY OUT TO PARTICIPATE IN THE 11 MARCH LEGISLATIVE ELECTIONS.</p><p>IN SOME AREAS OF THE COUNTRY, M-19 WILL PRESENT ITS OWN LIST OF CANDIDATES, WHILE IN OTHERS IT WILL PARTICIPATE IN COALITION WITH TRADITIONAL PARTIES AND LEFTIST GROUPS.</p><p>THE PEACE TALKS, RECENTLY SEALED WITH AN AMNESTY FOR THE SUBVERSIVES, BEGAN BETWEEN THE ADMINISTRATION OF PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO AND M-19, AN EXTREME LEFTIST AND NATIONALIST GROUP STRUGGLING FOR ALMOST 20 YEARS, IN EARLY 1989.</p><p>THE M-19 OCCUPIED THE DOMINICAN EMBASSY IN BOGOTA FOR TWO MONTHS. THE GROUP HELD APPROXIMATELY 20 FOREIGN DIPLOMATS HOSTAGES. IN ADDITION, THE M-19 STOLE 5,000 WEAPONS FROM A MILITARY GARRISON AND CARRIED OUT THE BLOODY TAKEOVER OF BOGOTA'S JUSTICE PALACE, AN ACTION THAT CLAIMED THE LIVES OF 100 PEOPLE.</p></body></html>