<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0936"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0936"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0936</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0936 (SRI)</p><p>BOGOTA, 6 DEC 89 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] JUST A FEW MINUTES AGO TWO VERY STRONG EXPLOSIONS OCCURRED IN THE CENTER OF BOGOTA. WE FELT THESE EXPLOSIONS HERE AT THE RCN [RADIO CADENA NACIONAL] BUILDING. ONE OF THE EXPLOSIONS OCCURRED IN THE VICINITY OF THE COURTS IN THE PALO QUEMADO SECTOR, WHERE ALL THE BOGOTA JUDICIAL BRANCH OFFICES ARE LOCATED. APPARENTLY THE OTHER EXPLOSION OCCURRED IN A STREET NEAR THE PRESIDENTIAL PALACE.</p><p>THERE WERE TWO EXPLOSIONS OCCURRING CONSECUTIVELY BUT VERY CLOSE TOGETHER, WHICH IS WHY IT WAS FELT SO STRONGLY. IT INITIALLY FELT LIKE AN EARTHQUAKE: FIRST THE WAVE AND THEN THE EXPLOSION. ALL THE RESIDENTS IN THIS CENTRAL AREA OF BOGOTA FELT IT.</p><p>IT IS ALSO SAID THAT THE EXPLOSION COULD HAVE OCCURRED CLOSER TO THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY, DAS, WHICH IS LOCATED IN THE SAME AREA. THE DAS HEADQUARTERS ARE JUST AROUND THE CORNER FROM THE JUDICIAL BRANCH OFFICES IN PALO QUEMADO. THE STRONG EXPLOSION THAT WAS FELT BY ALL OF US WHO WORK AT THIS HOUR IN THE CENTRAL BOGOTA AREA TOOK PLACE AT 19TH CARRERA AND 25TH STREET IN PALO QUEMADO. I REPEAT, TWO CONSECUTIVE EXPLOSIONS OCCURRED AT 0735 IN THE CENTER OF BOGOTA.</p><p>HERE IS SOME UPDATED INFORMATION: IT WAS NOT TWO EXPLOSIONS, AS WE HAD INTIALLY BELIEVED, BUT THREE EXPLOSIONS THAT OCCURRED A FEW MINUTES AGO IN BOGOTA. ONE OF THEM WAS IN THE PALO QUEMADO SECTOR, AS WE HAVE ALREADY REPORTED, IN THE AREA WHERE BOTH THE BOGOTA COURTS AND DAS ARE LOCATED. ANOTHER EXPLOSION OCCURRED IN THE SOUTHERN PART OF BOGOTA AT 14TH CARRERA AND 28TH STREET SOUTH, APPARENTLY NEAR AN AGRARIAN TRUST BRANCH IN THE BARRIO GUSTAVO RESTREPO NEIGHBORHOOD. A THIRD EXPLOSION OCCURRED IN THE CENTRAL AREA OF BOGOTA. THESE THREE EXPLOSIONS IN BOGOTA TOOK PLACE ALMOST SIMULTANEOUSLY, JUST A FEW SECONDS APART.</p><p>WE NOW HAVE OFFICIAL FIGURES OF THE EXPLOSION NEAR THE DAS HEADQUARTERS: SEVEN PERSONS WERE KILLED, MORE THAN 50 WERE WOUNDED, AND APPROXIMATELY 25 VEHICLES AND AT LEAST 15 BUILDINGS -- INCLUDING THE DAS OFFICES THAT WERE PARTIALLY DESTROYED -- WERE DAMAGED. INITIALLY, DAS OFFICIALS HAVE ESTIMATED THAT A POWERFUL BOMB OF MORE THAN 100 KG OF DYNAMITE PLACED IN A TRUCK WAS ACTIVATED.</p><p>THE HUGE EXPLOSION CAUSED THE INITIAL DESTRUCTION OF THE FRONT PART OF THE DAS HEADQUARTERS, AS WELL AS A BUILDING WHERE THERE WAS A HARDWARE STORE, AND THE TOTAL DESTRUCTION OF SIX OR SEVEN OTHER BUILDINGS. A CRATER 15 METERS WIDE AND 6 METERS DEEP WAS CREATED IN 27TH CARRERA.</p><p>MOST OF THE VICTIMS OF THE EXPLOSION WERE IN PRIVATE VEHICLES AND TAXIS, AND ONLY FOUR WERE WALKING IN THE AREA WHEN THE EXPLOSION OCCURRED AT ALMOST 0740. OFFICIALS SAY INITIALLY THAT THERE WERE 50 PERSONS, HIT BY GLASS SHARDS AND FLYING PIECES OF VEHICLES, INJURED IN THE EXPLOSION. OFFICIALS HAVE INDICATED THAT IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THE NUMBER OF VICTIMS WILL INCREASE, AS THE ATTACK AGAINST THE DAS HEADQUARTERS WAS VERY STRONG. WE REPEAT: OFFICIALLY, SEVEN PERSONS WERE KILLED HERE IN FRONT OF THE DAS HEADQUARTERS.</p></body></html>