<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0879"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0879"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0879</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0879 (GTE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE ENEMY IS LEFT LIKE THAT, HANGING FROM A THREAD -- A STRATEGIC THREAD WHICH CAN BREAK AT ANY MOMENT AND RESULT IN A MILITARY SETBACK FOR THE ARMY. THE PHENOMENON WHICH ENSUED AFTER THE MASSES JOINED THE OFFENSIVE IN ITS EARLY STAGES FORCED THE ENEMY TO INDISCRIMINATELY USE THE AIR FORCE TO PREVENT A GENERAL UPRISING AND TO CURTAIL THE INSURRECTION. NEVERTHELESS, THE EFFORT EXERTED TO LAUNCH A NATIONWIDE OFFENSIVE HAS BEEN BASED ON A LARGE-SCALE PEASANT AND SUBURBAN INSURRECTION PROCESS. OUR RANKS WERE CONSIDERABLY INCREASED TO RENDER THE OFFENSIVE EFFECTIVE, AND THIS WAS POSSIBLE THANKS TO THE PEOPLE'S GREAT INTEREST IN FIGHTING IN THE CITIES AND SPEEDING UP THE OUTCOME OF THE WAR. THE PEOPLE ALSO JOINED OUR RANKS DURING THE FIGHTING WHICH OCCURRED IN THE CITIES.</p><p>FURTHERMORE, THE GERM OF A NEW SOCIAL EXPLOSION HAS BEEN CREATED BY THE GOVERNMENT ITSELF, WITH ITS INDISCRIMINATE BOMBINGS AND REPRESSION. EVEN THOUGH SOME PEOPLE MAY BLAME THE FMLN FOR THE ARMY'S BRUTAL REACTION, FEW CAN FEEL ANY SYMPATHY FOR THOSE WHO HAVE BOMBED THEM. THIS HAS CREATED A SOCIAL SITUATION WHICH GUARANTEES THE CONTINUITY OF THE FMLN'S OFFENSIVE UNTIL VICTORY IS ACHIEVED. ALL THE PEOPLE DISPLACED BY THE BOMBINGS ARE DISSATISFIED PEOPLE WHO WILL JOIN THE STRUGGLE SOONER OR LATER.</p><p>WE REMEMBER THE PHENOMENON OF THE DISPLACED PEOPLE AND REFUGEES CAUSED BY THE BOMBINGS IN THE SALVADORAN COUNTRYSIDE. THE BRUTAL ATTITUDE OF THE ARMY AND AIR FORCE HAS LEGITIMIZED THE ARMED STRUGGLE. THE OTHER PARTY, MEANING THE ENEMY, HAD TO GRAB ALL THE RESOURCES OF A CONVENTIONAL WAR: AIRPLANES, HELICOPTERS, AND HEAVY ARTILLERY. THIS LEGITIMIZES THE PEOPLE'S ARMED STRUGGLE AND SELF-DEFENSE.</p><p>A THIRD GREAT ACHIEVEMENT OF THE NATIONAL AND STRATEGIC EFFORT EXERTED AGAINST FASCISM HAS BEEN THE LIBERATION OF LARGE ZONES OF THE NATIONAL TERRITORY. A NEW, EMERGING POWER NOW CONTROLS EIGHT DEPARTMENTS OF THE COUNTRY. THE ARMY IS SPREAD THIN AND IT HAD TO ABANDON THE ZONES WHERE IT CANNOT KEEP ITS MEN -- COMPROMISED AS IT IS IN THE STRATEGIC DEFENSE OF THE CITIES. THIS PUTS THE ARMY THROUGHOUT THE NATIONAL TERRITORY IN A SITUATION RESEMBLING A CLOTH WITH MANY HOLES, STRETCHED TO THE LIMIT AND THREATENING TO RIP AT ANY POINT. THE TEAR CAN OCCUR WHEN LEAST EXPECTED. LARGE GROUPS OF PEOPLE ARE NOW IN THOSE LIBERATED TERRITORIES, ENGAGED IN A RECONSTRUCTION EFFORT AND ORGANIZING A REARGUARD FOR THE MARCH ON THE CITIES.</p><p>THERE IS A FOURTH ELEMENT TO CONSIDER: ONE OF THE FIRST AND MOST IMPORTANT ACHIEVEMENTS IS THE FACT THAT THERE IS NOW A BETTER BALANCE FOR NEGOTIATIONS. ALL OF THE GOVERNMENT'S DEMANDS AND PROPOSALS AT THE NEGOTIATION TABLE ARE COMPLETELY NULL AND VOID. THE PRETENSE OF DEMANDING THE FMLN'S SURRENDER IS UNTIMELY GIVEN SUCH A SHOW OF STRENGTH. NO ONE IN THE WORLD WOULD NOW BE WILLING TO BET ON THAT POSITION. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>