<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0718"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0718"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0718</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0718 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 13 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] THIS IS A LAST MINUTE REPORT BROUGHT TO YOU THROUGH THE NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY NETWORK, RADIO FARABUNDO MARTI AND RADIO VENCEREMOS IN NETWORK BROADCASTING TO THE WHOLE COUNTRY. THIS LAST MINUTE REPORT STATES THAT THE AIR FORCE HAS BOMBED AND STRAFED THE AREA ACROSS FROM THE INCA FACTORY AND PRADOS DE VENECIA IN SOYAPANGO. AS A RESULT OF THIS BOMBING AND STRAFING ACTION 3 PERSONS HAVE BEEN KILLED AND 12 INJURED. IN PRADOS DE VENECIA HOUSES HAVE BEEN TOTALLY DESTROYED.</p><p>ATTENTION, WE CALL THIS INFORMATION TO THE ATTENTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS, AND INTERNATIONAL HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS. THE NUMBER OF VICTIMS AS A RESULT OF THE BOMBINGS IN SAN SALVADOR IS INCREASING. ACROSS FROM THE INCA FACTORY AND PRADOS DE VENECIA IN SOYAPANGO, THE AIR FORCE IS INDISCRIMINATELY BOMBING AND STRAFING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. ATTENTION, THE REPORT WE HAVE RECEIVED FROM SAN SALVADOR ADVISES US THAT 3 PERSONS HAVE BEEN KILLED AND 12 INJURED AND HOUSES DESTROYED IN PRADOS DE VENECIA AS A RESULT OF THE INDISCRIMINATE BOMBING BY THE AIR FORCE.</p><p>THE GENOCIDAL AND COWARDLY ATTITUDE OF THE AIR FORCE, BOMBING AREAS JUST LIKE ANASTASIO SOMOZA DID DURING THE LAST DAYS OF HIS DICTATORSHIP, IS SHOWING THE WORLD:</p><p>1. THE FASCIST NATURE OF ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S REGIME. THE FASCIST NATURE OF LA TANDONA [REFERENCE TO THE 1966 GRADUATES OF CAPTAIN GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY ACADEMNY] HAS REMOVED THE CIVILIAN MASK OFF THE GOVERNMENT'S FACE AND SHOWN ITS REAL MILITARY AND FASCIST FACE.</p><p>2. THESE BOMBINGS PROVE THAT AS THE HOURS GO BY THEY BECOME MORE DESPERATE AND HAVE LOST TOTAL CONTROL OF THE SITUATION. THE PROMISES MADE BY CRISTIANI AND THE DEFENSE MINISTER THAT THEY WOULD GET THE SITUATION UNDER CONTROL ON SATURDAY HAS FAILED. ON SATURDAY NIGHT COLONEL [RENE] PONCE PROMISED TO BRING THE SITUATION UNDER CONTROL ON SATURDAY NIGHT, HOWEVER, MORE THAN 32 HOURS HAVE GONE BY AND THE ARMED FORCES AND THE HIGH COMMAND HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO STOP THE REVOLUTIONARY ADVANCE IN SAN SALVADOR, SAN MIGUEL, AND THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT'S [FMLN] MILITARY POSITIONS IN SAN SALVADOR ARE BEING CONSOLIDATED AFTER MORE THAT 32 HOURS OF UNINTERRUPTED FIGHTING. THE PLAN FOR THE DEFENSE OF SAN SALVADOR HAS FAILED. THE U.S. ADVISERS AND THE HIGH COMMAND HAVE BEEN PREPARING THIS PLAN FOR MONTHS. WE HEREBY ADVISE THE PEOPLE THAT THE PLAN FOR THE DEFENSE OF SAN SALVADOR HAS FAILED. THEY WERE NOT ABLE TO PREVENT OUR FORCES FROM ARMING AND GETTING SUPPLIES; THEY WERE NOT ABLE TO STOP OUR FMLN FORCES FROM ENTERING SAN SALVADOR, AND THEY HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO STOP OUR ADVANCE OR RECOVER A SINGLE INCH OF THE CITY OCCUPIED BY THE FMLN. WE CAN STATE THAT THE ARMED FORCES HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO WIN BACK A SINGLE INCH OF TERRITORY UNDER OUR CONTROL IN MEJICANOS, AYUTUXTEPEQUE, CUSCATANCINGO, ZACAMIL, UNIVERSITARIA NORTE, OR SOYAPANGA. THE ARMED FORCES HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO ADVANCE A SINGLE INCH. EVERY SINGLE STEP IN AN ATTEMPT TO WIN BACK THE NEIGHBORHOODS WE OCCUPY HAS COST THEM DEARLY IN DEAD AND WOUNDED.</p></body></html>