<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0574"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0574"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="QUITO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0574</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0574 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>QUITO, 12 OCT 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] THIS YEAR, FRANCE WILL GRANT ECUADOR A 310 MILLION-FRANC LOAN AND A NON-REPAYABLE LOAN FOR 20 MILLION. FRANCE WILL ALSO PROVIDE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, AND WILL SUPPORT ECUADOR'S STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKERS AND ITS EFFORTS TO SOLVE ECUADOR'S FOREIGN DEBT PROBLEM, PRESIDENTS FRANCOIS MITTERRAND AND RODRIGO BORJA ANNOUNCED TODAY IN QUITO.</p><p>THUS, THE FRENCH AID TO ECUADOR IN 1989 WILL TOTAL 400 MILLION FRANCS, SINCE FRANCE PREVIOUSLY AGREED TO GRANT LOANS FOR 180 MILLION FRANCS TO ECUADOR.</p><p>THE ANNOUNCEMENT WAS MADE ON 12 OCTOBER, SHORTLY BEFORE MITTERRAND CONCLUDED HIS OFFICIAL 2-DAY VISIT TO ECUADOR, WHERE HE HELD A PRIVATE MEETING WITH BORJA -- A FELLOW MEMBER OF SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL -- AFTER ECUADORAN FOREIGN MINISTER DIEGO CORDOVEZ AND EDWIGE AVICE, DELEGATE FROM THE FRENCH MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, SIGNED AN LETTER OF INTENTION.</p><p>FROM THE TOTAL LOANS, 165 MILLION FRANCS WILL BE USED FOR THE FIRST PHASE OF A PROJECT TO REHABILITATE THE CENTRAL RAILROAD. THE PROJECT INCLUDES THE REHABILITATION OF 900 KM OF THE RAILWAY LINE BETWEEN THE ECUADORAN MOUNTAIN RANGE AND THE ECUADORAN COAST, BORJA SAID. HE REVEALED THAT THE LOAN IS TO BE PAID BACK IN 25 YEARS, WITH A 5-YEAR GRACE PERIOD AND LOW INTEREST RATES. HE ALSO NOTED THE SOCIAL SIGNIFICANCE OF THE PROJECT, IN A COUNTRY WITH DIFFICULT AND RUGGED TERRAIN. THE REMAINING FUNDS WILL BE USED TO SUPPLY POTABLE WATER TO THE PROVINCES OF IMBABURA IN THE MOUNTAIN RANGE, AND MANABI IN THE COASTAL REGION.</p><p>WITH REGARD TO ECUADOR'S FOREIGN DEBT, WHICH EXCEEDS $11 BILLION, MITTERRAND SAID HE IS "WILLING TO PERSONALLY ASSIST," IN THE STUDY OF BILATERAL AGREEMENTS TO REDUCE THE DEBT BURDEN, AND TO INTERCEDE BEFORE THE PARIS CLUB, TO WHICH ECUADOR OWES $400 MILLION.</p><p>MITTERRAND ASKED BORJA TO GIVE HIM TIME TO STUDY THE BILATERAL AGREEMENTS ON THE DEBT. IN THIS REGARD, MITTERRAND CLEARLY EXPRESSED THAT THE DEBT WILL NOT BE FORGIVEN. HE BELIEVES THIS IS AN OVERALL PROBLEM AND IS "MORE DANGEROUS THAN THE ATOMIC BOMB," BECAUSE THE COUNTRIES FACING THIS PROBLEM CANNOT CONTROL IT." AT THE SAME TIME, MITERRAND ASKED: "WHO CAN CONTROL THE MISERY AND THE DISTURBANCES" THIS PROBLEM WILL GENERATE?</p><p>MITTERRAND ADDED THAT EFFORTS WILL BE MADE TO IMPROVE THE WEAK BILATERAL TRADE, WHICH IN 1988 TOTALLED 321.3 MILLION FRANCS ($50.6 MILLION), WITH A DEFICIT OF 56.5 MILLION FRANCS FOR ECUADOR ($8.9 MILLION).</p><p>MITTERRAND SAID FRENCH EXPERTS WILL STUDY THE POSSIBILITY OF BOOSTING SALES OF ECUADORAN PRODUCTS TO FRANCE, ESPECIALLY SEAFOOD PRODUCTS, SUCH AS SHRIMP, AS WELL AS BANANAS, WHICH FRANCE CURRENTLY BUYS FROM AFRICAN COUNTRIES. "WHAT WE WANT TO DO IS OPEN NEW DOORS," MITTERRAND ADDED. HOWEVER, HE INSISTED ON THE NEED TO WAIT FOR THE STUDIES THE EXPERTS WILL CARRY OUT.</p><p>THE CHIEFS OF STATE ANNOUNCED THE SIGNING OF A COOPERATION AGREEMENT TO STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING, STILL AT AN EARLY STAGE IN ECUADOR. THROUGH THIS AGREEMENT, SIGNED BY ECUADORAN GOVERNMENT MINISTER ANDRES VALLEJO AND FRENCH INTERIOR MINISTER PIERRE JOXE, A PLAN WILL BE DRAFTED TO STRUGGLE AGAINST THIS SCOURGE. FRANCE WILL PROVIDE ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT AND OTHER SUPPLIES TO THE ECUADORAN POLICE.</p><p>MITTERRAND SAID HE THOROUGHLY DISCUSSED THIS PROBLEM WITH BORJA, ALTHOUGH THIS IS NOT A SPECIFIC PROBLEM OF ECUADOR, WHICH IS NOT A PRODUCING COUNTRY, BUT IS USED FOR THE TRANSSHIPMENT OF DRUGS. HE MADE AN APPEAL TO ORGANIZE A WORLD FRONT TO ELIMINATE THIS SCOURGE.</p><p>BORJA CONFIRMED MITTERRAND'S STATEMENTS AND ADDED THAT ALTHOUGH ECUADOR "IS NOT A DRUG-PRODUCING COUNTRY, WE WILL NOT REST," BECAUSE I BELIEVE OTHER COUNTRIES "BEGAN LATE" IN THEIR STRUGGLE AGAINST THIS EVIL.</p><p>THE TWO PRESIDENTS AGREED ON THE NEED TO CONCERTED EFFORTS -- AMONG COUNTRIES PRODUCING AND CONSUMING DRUGS, COUNTRIES USED FOR THE TRANSSHIPMENT OF DRUGS, AND FOR MONEY LAUNDERING -- TO FACE THIS SCOURGE. THE TWO PRESIDENTS COMMITTED THEIR EFFORTS IN THIS RESPECT.</p><p>MITTERRAND, WHO UPON CONCLUDING HIS VISIT TO ECUADOR WILL MAKE A STOPOVER IN BOGOTA, SAID THAT HIS UNSCHEDULED VISIT TO COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO IS "TO GIVE OPEN TESTIMONY ON THE SOLIDARITY THAT MUST BE GIVEN TO THE PRESIDENT OF SUCH A COURAGEOUS GOVERNMENT.</p><p>FINALLY, MITTERRAND NOTED THE BENEFITS OF HIS VISIT TO ECUADOR -- WHICH HE EXPECTS TO REPEAT -- AND THE ENTHUSIASTIC WELCOMING HE RECEIVED. BORJA THANKED THIS "GREAT EUROPEAN AND WORLD LEADER, WHO IS OFFERING HIS FRIENDSHIP TO US," FOR HIS VISIT.</p></body></html>