<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0982"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0982"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0982</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0982 (SRI)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 13 DEC 89 (RADIO NUEVO MUNDO) -- [TEXT] PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO HAS REFERRED TO THE POSSIBILITY OF A DIALOGUE BETWEEN GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVES AND MEMBERS OF THE GUATEMALAN NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY UNITY, URNG, CLEARLY STATING THAT THE POSSIBILITY OF A DIALOGUE WITH THAT ORGANIZATION HAS BEEN DISCUSSED. HE ADDED THAT THE URNG MUST FIRST STATE THAT IT IS WILLING TO PEACEFULLY PARTICIPATE IN THE DIALOGUE.</p><p>THE GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT ADDED THAT THE REBELS MUST UNDERSTAND THA THEY CANNOT TALK ABOUT DIALOGUE WHEN PERPETRATING ACTS OF TREASON AGAINST THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PEOPLE, MEANING PLACING BOMBS AND PERPETRATING ACTS OF TERRORISM. THE URNG MUST DECIDE TO SUSPEND ITS TERRORIST ACTIONS IF IT WANTS TO HOLD A DIALOGUE, HE SAID. CEREZO ADDED THAT THERE IS A POLITICAL OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL THE IDEOLOGIES IN GUATEMALA.</p><p>CEREZO AREVALO ADDED THAT IF THE URNG MEMBERS WISH TO HOLD A DIALOGUE, THEY MAY DO SO. IN FACT, HE SAID, IF THEY WANT TO RETURN TO THE COUNTRY WE CAN DISCUSS THE SECURITY CONDITIONS -- BUT THEY MUST PUBLICLY STATE THEIR DECISION TO RETURN IN PEACE. OTHERWISE, THE PRESIDENT ADDED, IT WOULD BE TANTAMOUNT TO GIVING THE OTHER, RIGHT-WING, TERRORISTS, WHO ATTACK STUDENTS, ENGAGE IN KIDNAPPING, AND PLACE BOMBS, THE RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE IN AN INTERNAL DIALOGUE. THE URNG MUST DECIDE IF IT WANTS TO JOIN US. THEY MUST DO IT PEACEFULLY BECAUSE THAT IS THE PROPER THING. THE PEOPLE ARE FED UP WITH VIOLENCE AND WAR, HE SAID.</p><p>PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO REFERRED TO THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PARLIAMENT'S FUTURE DURING THE NEWS CONFERENCE, HELD AT THE GUATEMALAN AIR FORCE'S INSTALLATIONS UPON HIS RETURN TO THE COUNTRY FROM COSTA RICA. HE SAID THAT THE SAN ISIDRO DECLARATION SIGNED BY THE FIVE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS INCLUDED TWO IMPRESSIVE DECISIONS. HE SAID THAT THEY SIGNED AN AGREEMENT ON THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PARLIAMENT -- EACH COUNTRY MAY DECIDE ON ITS CONTRIBUTION AS IT SEES FIT -- A SUBJECT WHICH HAD DELAYED THE SIGNATURE OF THE APPROPRIATE DOCUMENTS. IN ADDITION, THE ECOLOGY AND DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION WILL BEGIN TO OPERATE BECAUSE THEY BELIEVE THAT ITS EFFORTS WILL HELP CONSOLIDATE PEACE AND DEMOCRACY IN THE AREA.</p></body></html>