<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1219"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1219"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1219</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1219 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 9 APR 90 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] THE ARMED FORCES REPORTED TODAY THAT 10 GUERRILLAS WERE KILLED AND SIX WERE WOUNDED DURING BATTLES IN THE LAST FEW HOURS IN VARIOUS AREAS OF EL SALVADOR. THEY ADDED THAT A CHILD ACTIVATED A MINE, INJURING HIMSELF AND TWO SOLDIERS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO SOURCES, THE REBEL CASUALTIES INCLUDED AN UNIDENTIFIED COMMANDER KNOWN AS "ERNESTO," WHO DIED IN A CLASH IN JUCUAPA, USULUTAN DEPARTMENT, 110 KM EAST OF SAN SALVADOR. ANOTHER GUERRILLA WAS ALSO KILLED IN THE FIGHTING THERE.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE (COPREFA) REPORTED THAT "AN AK- 47 RIFLE AND DOCUMENTS BEING ANALYZED BY MILITARY INTELLIGENCE WERE SEIZED" FROM "ERNESTO."</p><p>IT ADDED THAT FOUR GUERRILLAS OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) WERE KILLED ON 8 APRIL IN CLASHES WITH THE GOVERNMENT TROOPS IN COLON, LIBERTAD DEPARTMENT, 19 KM EAST OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>THREE OTHER REBELS WERE KILLED AND SIX WERE WOUNDED IN A CLASH IN CABANAS DEPARTMENT, 70 KM FROM THE CAPITAL.</p><p>COPREFA REPORTED THAT ANOTHER GUERRILLA WAS KILLED IN ANTIGUO CUSCATLAN, ON THE SOUTHWESTERN OUTSKIRTS OF SAN SALVADOR, WHERE AN FMLN COLUMN ATTACKED UNITS OF THE ELITE ATLACATL BATTALION.</p><p>MILITARY SOURCES INDICATED THAT TWO SOLDIERS WERE WOUNDED WHEN TROOPS FOUGHT GUERRILLAS IN SAN MIGUEL DEPARTMENT, IN CENTRAL EL SALVADOR.</p></body></html>