<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0189"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0189"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0189</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0189 (ADS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 25 APR 89 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] PRESIDENT DUARTE SAID THIS AFTERNOON THAT PRESIDENT- ELECT ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S PEACE PROPOSAL DESERVES RESPECT AND THAT ONE MUST HOPE THAT IT WILL PRODUCE RESULTS THAT WILL BENEFIT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. THE PRESIDENT MADE THIS STATEMENT AT COMALPA AIRPORT UPON HIS RETURN FROM THE UNITED STATES. HE ADDED THAT HE WILL RESUME HIS DUTIES TOMORROW, EVEN THOUGH HIS CANCER HAS GROWN. THERE HAS BEEN VERY NEGATIVE SPECULATION ABOUT THE PRESIDENT'S HEALTH, BUT HE STATED THAT HE WILL RESUME HIS DUTIES IN THE NEXT FEW HOURS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [DUARTE] THE TESTS I UNDERWENT INDICATE THAT THE LIVER CANCER HAS GROWN. IT HAS NOT SPREAD BUT IT HAS GROWN, WHICH ADDS TO THE RISK. I UNDERWENT A 5-DAY TREATMENT, AND I WILL HAVE TO RETURN AS SOON AS I PASS THE PRESIDENCY ON TO MY SUCCESSOR. I WILL RETURN TO THE HOSPITAL ON 2 JUNE FOR ANOTHER CHECKUP AND TREATMENT.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHEN WILL YOU RESUME YOUR DUTIES?</p><p>[DUARTE] IMMEDIATELY. I AM THE PRESIDENT AND AS SOON AS I SET FOOT ON SALVADORAN SOIL, I RESUME MY DUTIES. [END RECORDING]</p><p>IN REGARD TO THE SEARCHES THAT HAVE BEEN CONDUCTED AT VARIOUS UNION HEADQUARTERS, DUARTE SAID HE WAS NOT FULLY AWARE OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH THESE WERE CARRIED OUT. HOWEVER, HE SAID THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS MUST BE DEFENDED WHEN DEMOCRATIC FREEDOMS TURN INTO LIBERTINISM.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [DUARTE] ONE MUST NOT CONFUSE THE FREEDOM OF ALL SALVADORANS TO EXPRESS THEMSELVES, HOLD DEMONSTRATIONS, JOIN UNIONS, AND WORK FOR THEIR ASPIRATIONS WITH TERRORIST AND SUBVERSIVE ACTIONS THAT ATTACK DEMOCRACY. ONE MUST NOT CONFUSE THESE THINGS. THIS IS ONE OF THE BASIC POINTS I HAVE TRIED TO MAKE ALL SECTORS UNDERSTAND. I HAVE BEEN CREATING POLITICAL OPPORTUNITIES IN THE COUNTRY SO THAT GRADUALLY WE WILL LEARN TO LIVE FREELY IN A DEMOCRACY WHILE RESPECTING ONE ANOTHER. [END RECORDING]</p><p>ASKED ABOUT THE UNITED FRONT THAT ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] IS PROMOTING IN THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY, THE PRESIDENT SAID THAT IF THIS BENEFITS THE COUNTRY, IT DESERVES SUPPORT.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [DUARTE] THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A POLICY FOR PEACE HAS ALWAYS BEEN SUPPORTED BY THE OUTGOING PRESIDENT -- IN OTHER WORDS, BY ME. I HAVE PUBLICLY STATED THIS, AND I HAVE TRIED TO ACHIEVE PEACE THROUGH [WORDS INDISTINCT]. IT WILL NOW BE UP TO ANOTHER PRESIDENT. I HAVE TO SHOW RESPECT FOR PRESIDENT-ELECT CRISTIANI, WHO MUST BE GIVEN THE OPPORTUNITY TO BEGIN HIS TERM IN AN ATMOSPHERE IN WHICH HE CAN PRESENT HIS IDEAS, PROPOSALS, AND SOLUTIONS [WORDS INDISTINCT] TO FIND THE PATH TO PEACE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>PRESIDENT DUARTE DID NOT COMMENT ON THE PEACE PROPOSAL THAT WAS RECENTLY ANNOUNCED BY ARENA BECAUSE, HE SAID, HE WAS NOT FAMILIAR WITH IT, ADDING THAT IT WOULD BE UNETHICAL TO QUESTION THE PROPOSALS AND EFFORTS OF THE NEXT PRESIDENT. HOWEVER, HE SAID THAT ANY EFFORTS FOR PEACE MUST BE SUPPORTED.</p></body></html>