<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0684"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0684"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0684</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0684 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 NOV 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] NINE HOURS AFTER A SERIES OF ATTACKS WERE LAUNCHED SIMULTANEOUSLY BY THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE CAPITAL, ONE CAN STILL HEAR THE EXPLOSIONS OF POWERFUL BOMBS, THE STRAFING OF REBEL POSITIONS BY AIR FORCE HELICOPTERS, AND HEAVY RIFLE FIRE.</p><p>A HIGH-POWERED BOMB SHOOK THE AFP OFFICES IN SAN SALVADOR A FEW MINUTES AGO. IT IS JUST BEFORE DAYBREAK, 0500 ON SUNDAY MORNING. FROM THE WINDOWS, ONE CAN SEE THAT THE HELICOPTERS ARE DROPPING FLARES BEFORE FIRING TO BETTER LOCATE THEIR TARGETS.</p><p>URBAN CELLS OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) ATTACKED AT LEAST 10 MILITARY POSITIONS IN THE CAPITAL AT 2000 ON SATURDAY NIGHT, AND THE ATTACKS ARE APPARENTLY CONTINUING THIS MORNING.</p><p>IN ADDITION TO ATTACKING MILITARY POSITIONS, THE REBELS ALSO LAUNCHED SIMULTANEOUS ATTACKS ON THE PRESIDENTIAL PALACE, PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S PRIVATE HOME, THE HOME OF RICARDO ALVARENGA, PRESIDENT OF THE CONGRESS, AND THE INSTALLATIONS OF THE CENTRAL ELECTORAL COUNCIL.</p><p>AIR FORCE HELICOPTER GUNSHIPS ARE STILL FIRING AT ALLEGED GUERRILLA POSITIONS, PRIMARILY IN THE NORTHERN PART OF SAN SALVADOR. AN EXCHANGE OF RIFLE FIRE HAS ALSO INTENSIFIED. THE NOISE CAN BE HEARD THROUGHOUT THE CAPITAL, WHERE CITIZENS ARE EXPERIENCING THE WORST ANXIETY OF THE PAST FEW YEARS OF CIVIL WAR IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>ON A NATIONAL RADIO NETWORK, THE ARMED FORCES URGED THE PEOPLE NOT TO LEAVE THEIR HOMES BEFORE 0600 (1200 GMT).</p><p>DESPITE THE INTENSITY OF THE FIGHTING, THE ARMY HAS NOT YET REPORTED ON CASUALTIES ON EITHER SIDE.</p><p>A MILITARY SPOKESMAN SAID OVER THE RADIO NETWORK THAT THE MILITARY UNITS HAVE SURROUNDED THE LAST REBEL STRONGHOLDS IN AYUTUXTEPEQUE, IN THE NORTHERN PART OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>IN CIUDAD DELGADO, ALSO ON THE NORTHERN SIDE, "HEAVY FIGHTING IS CONTINUING, BUT OUR UNITS ARE BRINGING THE SITUATION UNDER CONTROL," THE MILITARY SPOKESMAN SAID OVER THE RADIO NETWORK.</p><p>IMPORTANT SECTORS OF THE CITY REMAIN DARK BECAUSE THE GUERRILLAS SABOTAGED SEVERAL ELECTRIC PYLONS AT THE SAME TIME THAT THEY LAUNCHED THE ATTACKS ON THE MILITARY POSITIONS.</p><p>COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHAIRMAN OF THE ARMED FORCES JOINT STAFF, LAST WEEK NOTED WHAT HE DESCRIBED AS A "PRE-INSURRECTIONAL STAGE" ON THE PART OF THE FMLN, PRIMARILY IN URBAN AREAS.</p><p>VIOLENCE BROKE OUT ON SATURDAY MORNING, WHEN GUERRILLA URBAN COMMANDS LAUNCHED A MORTAR ATTACK ON THE NATIONAL GUARD HEADQUARTERS IN THE CAPITAL. TWO CHILDREN AND EIGHT OTHER PEOPLE (THREE SOLDIERS AND FIVE CIVILIANS) WERE WOUNDED.</p></body></html>