<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0502"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0502"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MEXICO CITY (MEXICO)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0502</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0502 (UMASS)</p><p>MEXICO CITY (MEXICO), 22 SEP 89 (REUTER) -- [ARTICLE] [PAUL IREDALE] [TEXT] ACCORDING TO WESTERN DIPLOMATS, COLOMBIAN DRUG TRAFFICKERS HAVE MOVED TO GUATEMALA IN SEARCH OF NEW SUPPLY ROUTES, BRINGING INSTABILITY TO A COUNTRY THAT IS EXPERIENCING A WAVE OF VIOLENCE FROM VARIOUS SECTORS.</p><p>THE DIPLOMATS BELIEVE THAT UP TO 200 COLOMBIANS LINKED TO THE MEDELLIN AND CALI CARTELS ARE NOW OPERATING IN GUATEMALA AND THAT ABOUT 500 KG OF COCAINE PASS EVERY WEEK THROUGH THE COUNTRY, ESSENTIALLY ENROUTE TO THE U.S. MARKET.</p><p>THE INCREASING DRUG TRAFFICKING ACTIVITY COINCIDES WITH A NEW WAVE OF KIDNAPPINGS, BOMBINGS, AND MURDERS IN GUATEMALA, AWAKENING FEARS THAT THE COUNTRY WILL RETURN TO THE VIOLENCE PREVALENT AT THE BEGINNING OF THE DECADE, WHEN THOUSANDS WERE KILLED BY DEATH SQUADS DURING MILITARY REGIMES.</p><p>SINCE AUGUST, A PROMINENT POLITICIAN, A WELL-KNOWN BANKER, AND AT LEAST FIVE UNIVERSITY STUDENTS HAVE BEEN MURDERED. SEVERAL BOMBS HAVE EXPLODED IN THE CAPITAL IN RECENT MONTHS AND STUDENTS AND HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVISTS ARE MISSING.</p><p>"ALL OF THIS VIOLENCE CANNOT BE BLAMED ON A [WORDS INDISTINCT], BUT THE INCREASE OF DRUG TRAFFICKING IS CLEARLY AN ADDITIONAL CONCERN."</p><p>IN ADDITION TO THE COCAINE, WHICH THE DIPLOMATS SAY IS TAKEN TO THE UNITED STATES ABOARD LIGHT PLANES OR IN AUTOMOBILES THROUGH MEXICO AND TEXAS, U.S. OFFICIALS HAVE REPORTED AN INCREASE IN OPIUM PRODUCTION IN GUATEMALA. ACCORDING TO ESTIMATES, THE NUMBER OF HECTARES PLANTED WENT FROM 225 IN 1985 TO 1,500 THIS YEAR.</p><p>THERE ARE INSISTENT RUMORS THAT BANKER RAMIRO CASTILLO LOVE WAS MURDERED OUTSIDE HIS HOUSE ON 25 AUGUST BECAUSE HE REFUSED TO LAUNDER DRUG MONEY. THERE IS OPEN TALK IN THE CAPITAL ABOUT IMPORTANT POLITICIANS BEING LINKED TO DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>NEVERTHELESS, THE DIPLOMATS SAY THAT THERE IS NO EVIDENCE TO BACK SUCH SPECULATION AND THEY ADD THAT IT IS VERY LIKELY THAT SEVERAL INTERESTS ARE WORKING TO DESTABILIZE THE COUNTRY'S FRAGILE DEMOCRACY.</p><p>"IT SEEMS AS IF SEVERAL STRINGS ARE BEING PULLED AT THE SAME TIME," A DIPLOMAT SAID.</p><p>WHILE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO HAS GIVEN GUATEMALA A RESPITE, AFTER DECADES OF MILITARY REGIMES DURING WHICH IT IS BELIEVED THAT MORE THAN 100,000 PEOPLE WERE KILLED AS A RESULT OF POLITICAL VIOLENCE, IT IS ESTIMATED THAT APPROXIMATELY 1,200 LEFTIST GUERRILLAS ARE STILL FIGHTING IN THE MOUNTAINS.</p><p>FURTHERMORE, THE COUNTRY HAS FACED TWO COUP ATTEMPTS SINCE DEMOCRACY WAS RESTORED IN 1986.</p><p>THE ULTRA-RIGHT-WING, WITH ITS TIES TO THE LAND-OWNING OLIGARCHY, CONTINUES TO BE A POWERFUL FORCE IN THE COUNTRY. IT HAS BLOCKED A MAJORITY OF REFORMS THAT CEREZO HAS TRIED TO INTRODUCE AND, ACCORDING TO THE GENERAL CONSENSUS, IT HAS PROMOTED DISCONTENT AMONG THE ARMED FORCES' MID-LEVEL OFFICERS.</p><p>"THE ULTRA-RIGHT-WING IS UNDOUBTEDLY BEHIND PART OF THE VIOLENCE," SAID A DIPLOMAT. "IT COULD BE TRYING TO FORCE THE GOVERNMENT TO OVERREACT OR CAUSE THE ARMY TO GET INVOLVED."</p><p>AS IF TO CONFIRM THIS, A POLICE ARREST WARRANT HAS BEEN ISSUED AGAINST FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE LIONEL SISNIEGA, A NOTED POLITICIAN WHO LEANS TO THE RIGHT AND HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN COUP ATTEMPTS SINCE 1954, ON CHARGES OF HEADING A GROUP RESPONSIBLE FOR MUCH OF THE VIOLENCE IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>DIPLOMATS HAVE ALSO POINTED TO THE RESURGENCE OF ACTIVITIES BY LEFT-WING GUERRILLAS WHO HAVE BEEN STRUGGLING TO TOPPLE SUCCESSIVE GOVERNMENTS OVER THE PAST 2 DECADES.</p><p>"NOWADAYS THEY ARE USING MUCH MORE OBVIOUS TACTICS, ERECTING BARRICADES ON HIGHWAYS AND OCCUPYING SMALL TOWNS NEAR THE CAPITAL," ONE DIPLOMAT SAID.</p><p>FEAR THAT THE VIOLENCE OF THE SEVENTIES WILL RETURN MAY ALSO CONTRIBUTE TOWARD A RESURGENCE IN THE NUMBER OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS THAT CROSS OVER TO MEXICO.</p><p>MEXICAN AUTHORITIES SAY THAT THE NUMBER OF UNDOCUMENTED CENTRAL AMERICANS DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA HAS DOUBLED OVER THE PAST FEW MONTHS.</p><p>THE DIPLOMATS FEEL THAT CEREZO'S GOVERNMENT WILL WEATHER THE VIOLENCE AND PASS IT ONTO HIS SUCCESSOR AFTER THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS SCHEDULED FOR NOVEMBER 1990.</p><p>"PERHAPS THE SITUATION IS THE RESULT OF THE PREPARATION FOR ELECTIONS IN GUATEMALA," A DIPLOMAT SAID. "THINGS WILL PROBABLY WORSEN NEXT YEAR."</p></body></html>