<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0523"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0523"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY (COLOMBIA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0523</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0523 (UMASS)</p><p>NO CITY (COLOMBIA), 26 SEP 89 -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] ACCORDING TO THE PACT SIGNED TODAY, A BILATERAL COMMISSION THAT WILL BE CREATED SOON WILL DISCUSS THE MANNER IN WHICH THE GUERRILLA GROUP WILL BE DEMOBILIZED.</p><p>M-19 COMMANDER CARLOS PIZARRO SAID TODAY THAT THE ORGANIZATION, WHICH HAS A LITTLE MORE THAN 600 MEMBERS, WILL NOT TURN IN ITS WEAPONS TO THE ARMY, BUT TO AN INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION, POSSIBLY THE RED CROSS.</p><p>HOWEVER, WHILE THE M-19 IS CALLING FOR A DIALOGUE WITH THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS, INTELLIGENCE SERVICES HAVE ANNOUNCED THAT GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA, ALIAS "EL MEJICANO," HAS BEEN SURROUNDED AND WILL SOON BE CAPTURED.</p><p>A SPOKESMAN FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE SECURITY DEPARTMENT, THE COLOMBIAN INTELLIGENCE ORGANIZATION, TOLD REUTER: "WE BELIEVE THAT IMPORTANT ARRESTS WILL BE MADE IN THE NEXT FEW DAYS, ALTHOUGH WE DO NOT KNOW IF WE WILL CATCH RODRIGUEZ GACHA."</p><p>RODRIGUEZ GACHA AND PABLO ESCOBAR ARE CONSIDERED TO BE THE HEADS OF THE FEARSOME MEDELLIN CARTEL, AN ORGANIZATION OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS THAT, ALONG WITH ITS TWIN ORGANIZATION IN CALI, IS ACCUSED OF SUPPLYING 80 PERCENT OF THE COCAINE THAT IS CONSUMED IN THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT HAS OFFERED A REWARD OF 100 MILLION PESOS ($250,000) TO ANY CITIZEN WHO PROVIDES INFORMATION ON THE WHEREABOUTS OF THE TWO MOST WANTED MEN IN COLOMBIA.</p><p>YESTERDAY, A JUDGE ISSUED A WARRANT FOR THE ARREST OF FREDDY RODRIGUEZ CELADES, SON OF "EL MEJICANO," FOR THE ILLEGAL POSSESSION OF WEAPONS.</p><p>IN RECENT STATEMENTS TO THE PRESS, GENERAL MIGUEL GOMEZ PADILLA, CHIEF OF THE NATIONAL POLICE, SAID THAT BOTH DRUG TRAFFICKERS ARE IN COLOMBIAN TERRITORY, THUS DENYING REPORTS THAT THEY HAD REPORTEDLY MOVED THEIR BASES OF OPERATION TO PANAMA OR BRAZIL.</p><p>FINALLY, IN CARTAGENA DE INDIAS, A TOURIST CENTER ON THE CARIBBEAN COAST, A POWERFUL BOMB EXPLODED IN A HOTEL, KILLING TWO PEOPLE.</p><p>THE ATTACK WAS ATTRIBUTED TO THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS, WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF AN ESCALATION OF VIOLENCE IN WHICH OVER 70 BOMBS HAVE EXPLODED IN A LITTLE OVER 1 MONTH.</p></body></html>