<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1207"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1207"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1207</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1207 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 3 APR 90 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHAIRMAN OF THE ARMED FORCES JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF, BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [EXCERPTS] [REPORTER] WHAT IS THE POSITION OF THE ARMED FORCES CONCERNING THE PRESIDENTIAL SUMMIT IN NICARAGUA AND THE UPCOMING DIALOGUE TO BE HELD IN GENEVA BETWEEN THE REBELS AND THE GOVERNMENT? WILL THE ARMED FORCES SEEK SUPPORT FOR THE DIALOGUE AND A SOLUTION TO THE CONFLICT?</p><p>[PONCE] LAST WEEK THE ARMED FORCES RELEASED A PUBLIC MESSAGE TO THE PEOPLE EXPLAINING THEIR STAND AND MENTIONING THREE BASIC POINTS:</p><p>FIRST, THE ARMED FORCES SUPPORT A DIALOGUE THAT SEEKS PEACE IN THE COUNTRY THROUGH MECHANISMS OF UNDERSTANDING AND AGREEMENT.</p><p>SECOND, THE ARMED FORCES EXPRESS THEIR LOYALTY TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC IN THESE EFFORTS AND OTHER EFFORTS HE MAY UNDERTAKE TO FIND THE PEACE WE ALL CHERISH IN THIS COUNTRY.</p><p>THIRD, WE POSSESS THE MORAL CONVICTION AND THE OBEDIENCE -- AS ORDERED BY THE CONSTITUTION -- AS WELL AS THE HUMANISTIC AWARENESS TO PROMOTE AND PROTECT THE HUMAN RIGHTS OF ALL SALVADORANS.</p><p>THOSE ARE THE BASIC POINTS INCLUDED IN OUR MESSAGE TO THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE THAT WE ANNOUNCED LAST WEEK.</p><p>AS FOR THE PRESIDENTIAL SUMMIT BEING HELD IN NICARAGUA, THE ARMED FORCES WHOLEHEARTEDLY SUPPORT THE EFFORTS UNDERTAKEN BY OUR GOVERNMENT TO FIND THE MECHANISMS THAT WILL LEAD US TO PEACE IN THE REGION. THAT IS WHY THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC HAS OUR FULL SUPPORT IN THIS ENDEAVOUR FOR FINDING PEACE AND DEMOCRACY THROUGHOUT CENTRAL AMERICA.</p><p>CONCERNING THE DIALOGUE IN GENEVA, I BELIEVE THAT TOMORROW THERE WILL BE A BRIEFING WITH THE PARTICIPATION OF DELEGATES FROM THE GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] TOGETHER WITH THE UN SECRETARY GENERAL, WHO WILL ANNOUNCE THE MECHANISMS TO BE FOLLOWED IN THIS DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT DO THE ARMED FORCES THINK ABOUT THE EIGHT BOMBS THAT WERE DETONATED YESTERDAY AND KILLED SIX SOLDIERS AND ONE CIVILIAN? WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THIS NOW, SINCE IT IS EVIDENT THAT EXPLOSIVES ARE AGAIN BEING USED AGAINST THE PEOPLE?</p><p>[PONCE] WE, THE ARMED FORCES, FEEL THAT THESE EVENTS ARE CARRIED OUT BY THE TERRORISTS WITHIN THE FMLN WHO DO NOT BELIEVE DIALOGUE IS A MECHANISM FOR ACHIEIVING PEACE IN OUR COUNTRY. THESE INDIVIDUALS BELIEVE THAT VIOLENCE IS WHAT WILL LEAD THEM TO POWER. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>