<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0811"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0811"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0811</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0811 (PRC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 19 NOV 89 -- [INTERVIEW WITH FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) COMMANDER ROBERTO ROCA BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [ROCA] REAL LIFE IS MAKING IT EVIDENT THAT IN EL SALVADOR WE MUST FIND A DEMOCRATIC SOLUTION TO THE TERRIBLE CRISIS BEING ENDURED -- TO THE WAR. THIS DEMOCRATIC SOLUTION MEANS ISOLATING AND EXCLUDING THE FASCISTS FROM POWER BECAUSE THEY ARE AGAINST DEMOCRACY.</p><p>MR CRISTIANI CANNOT SAY UNDER THESE CIRCUMSTANCES THAT HE SHARES NO RESPONSIBILITY IN THE MURDER OF THE JESUITS. IN THE FRAMEWORK OF HIS FRUSTRATED ATTEMPT TO STOP THE GUERRILLA OFFENSIVE, HE UNLEASHED THE DOGS OF WAR -- ALL THE FASCIST ELEMENTS -- SO THAT THEY WOULD COMMIT ALL THE OUTRAGES THEY HAVE COMMITTED. THIS INCLUDES THE FASCIST ELEMENTS IN THE AIR FORCE AND THEIR INDISCRIMINATE BOMBING OF THE CIVILIAN POPULATION, AS WELL AS THE DEATH SQUADS, WHO WERE UNLEASHED SO THEY WOULD MURDER PEOPLE WHO BEST EXPRESS THE DEMOCRATIC FEELINGS OF THE PEOPLE AND, AS IN THE CASE OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS, TO ELIMINATE A VALUABLE SECTOR OF THE SALVADORAN INTELLIGENTSIA AT THE SERVICE OF DEMOCRACY AND SOCIAL JUSTICE.</p><p>AS WE ALL KNOW, THE JESUITS HAD CONTINUOUSLY DENOUNCED THE UNJUST SYSTEM IN EL SALVADOR AND HAD CALLED FOR CLEARING UP ALL CRIMES. THE FASCISTS, IN THEIR HATRED, PUT AN END TO THE LIVES OF THESE JESUITS BELIEVING THAT THEY CAN HIDE THE SUN WITH ONE FINGER. THE INDIGNATION OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WILL BE INCREASINGLY BACKED BY THE U.S. PEOPLE AS A RESULT OF THEIR INDIGNATION AND BY U.S. POLITICIANS WHO HAVE BECOME AWARE OF THE FACT THAT IT IS NECESSARY TO PUT AN END TO FASCIST OUTRAGES IN EL SALVADOR. THE FASCISTS REPRESENT A BARRIER THAT MUST BE DESTROYED AND DEFEATED TO HAVE DEMOCRACY IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>[REPORTER] COMMANDER, IF THE UNITED STATES DECIDED TO CUT OFF MILITARY AND ECONOMIC AID TO THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT, WHAT IMPACT WOULD THIS HAVE ON THE ARMED FORCES?</p><p>[ROCA] WE HAVE SAID ON MANY OCCASIONS THAT THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES WOULD HAVE LOST THE WAR SOME TIME AGO WERE IT NOT FOR U.S. SUPPORT AND FINANCING. AS WE HAVE STATED IN ALL OUR PROPOSALS FOR A POLITICAL SOLUTION, OUR OBJECTIVE IS NEITHER THE DESTRUCTION NOR THE ELIMINATION OF THE ARMED FORCES. WHAT WE WANT IS FOR THE ARMED FORCES TO GET RID OF THE FASCIST ELEMENTS THAT HAVE TURNED IT INTO A TOOL THAT ACTS AGAINST THE PEOPLE AND DEMOCRACY.</p><p>WE BELIEVE THAT SENSIBLE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES OFFICERS, THOSE WHO HAVE NOT LOST THEIR HEADS, MUST TAKE INTO CONSIDERATION [WORDS INDISTINCT] INDISCRIMINATE BOMBING, THE POLITICAL DEFEAT OF THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT, AND THE MILITARY DEFEAT OF THE METHODS AND TACTICS [WORDS INDISTINCT]. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>