<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0639"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0639"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0639</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0639 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 3 NOV 89 (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [EL SALVADOR GOVERNMENT] [TEXT] CONCERNING THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] COMMUNIQUE, THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT HEREBY ANNOUNCES THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>1. ON THE DAY OF THE TERRORIST ATTACK AGAINST FENASTRAS [SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION], THE GOVERNMENT STRONGLY CONDEMNED THE ATTACK AND ANNOUNCED ITS PLANS TO CARRY OUT A THOROUGH INVESTIGATION. HOWEVER, IT IS REGRETTABLE THAT FENASTRAS LEADERS HAVE BEEN HINDERING THE INVESTIGATIONS THAT COULD CLEAR UP THE ATTACK.</p><p>NONETHELESS, THE GOVERNMENT REITERATES ITS DETERMINATION TO CARRY OUT A THOROUGH INVESTIGATION, AND WILL EVEN BRING TO THE COUNTRY SOME EXPERTS IN THIS FIELD SO THAT WITH THE HELP OF MODERN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY THEY WILL HELP THE INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE CLARIFY THIS BLOODY AND CRIMINAL ATTACK AND ESTABLISH WHO IS RESPONSIBLE.</p><p>LIKEWISE, THE GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED TO APPOINT A COMMISSION THAT WILL GUARANTEE THE INVESTIGATIONS, AND IT WILL INVITE THE FOLLOWING: ONE REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE UNITED NATIONS; ONE REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE OAS; ONE REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE SALVADORAN BISHOPS' CONFERENCE; ONE REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE POLITICAL PARTIES; TWO LABOR UNION REPRESENTATIVES, ONE OF THEM BEING FROM FENASTRAS; DR IGNACIO ELLACURIA [JESUIT PRIEST AND RECTOR OF THE JOSE SIMEON CANAS CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY]; THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE REPUBLIC; AND THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE.</p><p>2. THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC HAS SUPPLIED EVIDENCE FROM THE BEGINNING THAT IT IS SINCERELY SEEKING PEACE. THE DIALOGUE COMMISSION ATTENDED A FIRST MEETING WITH THE FMLN IN MEXICO, AND ACCEPTED A COMMITMENT, AS FOLLOWS, AND I QUOTE: BOTH PARTIES COMMIT THEMSELVES NOT TO WITHDRAW UNILATERALLY FROM THE DIALOGUE.</p><p>THE FMLN'S WITHDRAWAL FROM THE DIALOGUE IS NOT ONLY A VIOLATION OF THE MEXICO AGREEMENT, BUT ALSO [WORD INDISTINCT] THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S HOPES FOR PEACE. FAR FROM SUSPENDING THE DIALOGUE, THE FMLN SHOULD UNDERSTAND THAT THE SEARCH FOR PEACE IS NOW MORE NECESSARY THAN EVER IN ORDER TO HALT THE BLOODSHED.</p><p>3. EVIDENTLY, IN SITUATIONS LIKE THIS ONE, THE ENEMIES OF PEACE ARE TRYING TO MAKE THE DIALOGUE FAIL. THE RECENT TERRORIST ACTIONS ARE AN INSULT TO THE CIVILIZED MECHANISMS THAT HAVE COME UP AT THE NEGOTIATIONS TABLE.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT HEREBY NOTIFIES THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY THAT THE DIALOGUE COMMISSION WILL CONTINUE TO DO ITS WORK, AND IT WILL NOT WITHDRAW FROM THE TALKS IN SPITE OF THE SORROWFUL EVENTS THAT HAVE BROUGHT MORE MOURNING TO THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE IN RECENT DAYS.</p><p>4. IN THESE DIFFICULT MOMENTS THAT OUR COUNTRY IS EXPERIENCING, THE GOVERNMENT REITERATES ITS CALL FOR THE PEOPLE TO REMAIN CALM, SO THAT IN A PRUDENT AND UNDERSTANDING MANNER WE WILL JOIN EFFORTS TO HELP REACH PEACE AND NOT PROMOTE VIOLENCE, WHICH ONLY SERVES TO HINDER THE DIALOGUE.</p><p>[ISSUED IN] SAN SALVADOR, 3 NOVEMBER 1989</p></body></html>