<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1298"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1298"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1298</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1298 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 21 MAY 90 (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] [TEXT] THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] INFORMS THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY:</p><p>1. SIMULTANEOUSLY WITH THE INITIATION OF THE CARACAS MEETING ON 16 MAY, THE ARMED FORCES LAUNCHED A GENERAL OFFENSIVE WITH AERIAL BOMBINGS, MASSIVE ARTILLERY ATTACKS, AND THE DEPLOYMENT OF PARATROOPERS AND INFANTRY SOLDIERS TO ALL OUR RURAL FRONTS. FOLLOWING FIVE DAYS OF INTENSE COMBAT, WE HAVE CONFIRMED THAT IT IS A ROUTINE OPERATION AND NOT A LARGE-SCALE OFFENSIVE.</p><p>2. OUR FORCES HAVE REJECTED THE ENEMY'S GENERAL OFFENSIVE AND TO DATE HAVE DOWNED ONE HELICOPTER, DAMAGED TWO OTHERS, AND INFLICTED DOZENS OF CASUALTIES ON THE ENEMY TROOPS. WE DENY THAT COMMANDER LEONCIO PICHINTE WAS KILLED IN COMBAT.</p><p>3. WHILE THE GOVERNMENT ACCUSES THE FMLN OF HAVING VIOLATED THE CONFIDENTIALITY OF THE TALKS, CRISTIANI AND [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE PROCESS HAVE BEEN MAKING A SERIES OF STATEMENTS CONCERNING CONFIDENTIAL ISSUES.</p><p>4. FROM THE SIGNING OF THE GENEVA AGREEMENT, THE GOVERNMENT HAS INCREASED ITS INTERFERENCE OF OUR RADIO VENCEREMOS AND RADIO FARABUNDO MARTI, WHICH REFLECTS THE GOVERNMENT'S WEAKNESS. IT CANNOT STAND TO HAVE OUR POSITIONS KNOWN. THEREFORE, THERE IS CLEARLY NO FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION, WHICH IN TURN DELAYS THE POSSIBILITY OF A CEASE-FIRE BECAUSE IT HINDERS THE NATIONAL DEBATE WE NEED IN ORDER TO REACH A POLITICAL SOLUTION.</p><p>5. FROM THE ABOVE SITUATION, WE CONCLUDE THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS USED THE CARACAS MEETING AS PART OF A WAR PLAN, WITH CRISTIANI PARTICIPATING AT THE PSYCHOLOGICAL WARFARE LEVEL WITH A VIEW TO POINTING OUT THE CONTRADICTORINESS OF THE FMLN'S POLITICAL ACTIVITY.</p><p>WITH THE NEGOTIATION AND THE INTERFERENCE OF OUR RADIO STATIONS, THE FMLN HAS SILENCED THE CONFIDENTIALITY ARGUMENT, WHILE THE ARMY IS TRYING TO MILITARILY ANNIHILATE US AND IS OPENLY PROCLAIMING IT BY SAYING THAT IT HAS ATTACKED COMMAND POSTS AND KILLED FMLN LEADERS.</p><p>6. THE FMLN REITERATES THAT AS LONG AS A CEASE-FIRE IS NOT AGREED UPON THROUGH A POLITICAL AGREEMENT THAT WILL END THE ARMY'S IMPUNITY, AND SPECIFIC PLEDGES ARE NOT MADE TO DEMILITARIZE THE COUNTRY, IT RESERVES THE LEGITIMATE RIGHT TO DEFEND ITSELF EVEN BY LAUNCHING OFFENSIVES, REGARDLESS OF THEIR SCOPE, WHENEVER NECESSARY ANYWHERE WITHIN THE NATIONAL TERRITORY.</p></body></html>