<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0263"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0263"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0263</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0263 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 26 JUN 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [REPORT] [ZORAIDA CAICEDO] [TEXT] THE CAMILIST UNION - ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION ELN HAS CARRIED OUT A NEW ATTACK ON THE PACIFIC OIL PIPELINE IN MULALO, YUMBO MUNICIPALITY. THE ATTACK OCCURRED AT APPROXIMATELY 2200 YESTERDAY WHEN TWO MEN ON A MOTORCYCLE SET OFF 5 KG OF DYNAMITE. THE EXPLOSION DESTROYED THREE SECTIONS OF THE PIPELINE THAT CARRIES GASOLINE FROM TANKERS IN BUENAVENTURA TO THE [ECOPETROL COLOMBIAN PETROLEUM ENTERPRISE] PLANT IN YUMBO. APPROXIMATELY 18,000 BARRELS OF GASOLINE ARE PUMPED THROUGH THIS SECTION OF THE PIPELINE DAILY. PUMPING HAS BEEN HALTED WHILE THE PIPELINE IS REPAIRED. ALTHOUGH THE EXACT AMOUNT OF THE DAMAGE IS STILL UNKNOWN, IT IS ESTIMATED THAT LOSSES FROM THE SPILLED GASOLINE AND THE DAMAGE TO THE PIPELINE ARE CLOSE TO 20 MILLION PESOS.</p><p>THIS IS THE FIFTH DYNAMITE ATTACK ON THE PACIFIC PIPELINE BY THE ELN IN VALLE DEL CAUCA DEPARTMENT IN THE PAST 6 MONTHS. ONE OCCURRED IN BUGA MUNICIPALITY 1 MONTH AGO, AND THE OTHER FOUR HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN THE MULALO AREA.</p></body></html>