<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0298"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0298"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0298</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0298 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 18 JUL 89 (TELEVISION NACIONAL DE CHILE NETWORK) -- [TEXT] INTERIOR MINISTER CARLOS CACERES TODAY STATED THAT THE GANG-STYLE ACTION AKEN YESTERDAY BY SOME PEOPLE TO OCCUPY PRIVATE PROPERTY WILL NOT INTIMIDATE THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>[BEGIN CACERES RECORDING] YESTERDAY, A WELL-ORGANIZED GROUP OF APPROXIMATELY 300 PEOPLE ATTEMPTED TO USURP PRIVATE PROPERTY USING MOLOTOV COCKTAILS, STONES AND FIREARMS. THEIR ACTION CAUSED ONE UNFORTUNATE DEATH, INJURIES, AND DAMAGE -- WHICH WERE REPORTED EARLIER -- TO THE DETRIMENT OF A LARGE NUMBER OF POOR FAMILIES.</p><p>IT IS PUBLICLY EVIDENT THAT THE COMMUNISTS AND THEIR CLOSEST ALLIES WERE BEHIND THE PREPARATION, COORDINATION AND EXECUTION OF THESE CRIMINALS ACTIONS.</p><p>UNFORTUNATELY, ONE CANNOT FAIL TO LINK THESE ACTIONS TO THE THREATENING, VIOLENT SPEECHES -- FOLLOWING THE STYLE USED BY THE POPULAR UNITY MEMBERS -- WITH WHICH SOME LEADERS OF THE OPPOSITION COALITION OPENED THE ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN OF THEIR CANDIDATE PATRICIO AYLWIN.</p><p>IT IS EVEN POSSIBLE TO REGARD THESE AGGRESSIONS AS SIGNALS AND WARNINGS OF THE INCONSISTENCIES AND CONTRADICTIONS THAT EXIST WITHIN SOME POLITICAL UMBRELLA GROUPS. THESE GROUPS CONSIST OF SECTORS ADVOCATING A PEACEFUL DEMOCRATIC COEXISTENCE ON THE ONE HAND, AND OTHER SECTORS THAT FOLLOW THE LINE OF THOSE WHO IN THE PAST DESTROYED OUR TRADITIONAL WAY OF LIFE ON THE OTHER HAND.</p><p>ALTHOUGH THE GOVERNMENT HAS STATED ITS DECISION NOT TO GET INVOLVED IN THE POLITICAL CAMPAIGN, IT CANNOT FAIL TO ANNOUNCE ITS POSITION AND TO STATE ITS OUTRIGHT REJECTION OF A MALICIOUS AND DEMAGOGICAL RHETORIC THAT POSES A THREAT TO PUBLIC TRANQUILLITY.</p><p>UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES WILL THE GOVERNMENT YIELD TO THOSE WHO TIME AND AGAIN SEEK AND PROMOTE SUBVERSION AND TO DISRUPT OUR DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONAL ORDER. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>