<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0717"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0717"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0717</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0717 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 13 NOV 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] A SPOKESMAN FOR THE ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE (COPREFA) HAS REPORTED THAT, IN ADDITION TO 30 DEAD CIVILIANS, MORE THAN 200 SOLDIERS AND GUERRILLAS HAVE BEEN KILLED IN FIERCE CLASHES THAT HAVE TAKEN PLACE AT NIGHT SINCE 11 NOVEMBER IN THE CAPITAL AND SEVERAL KEY SALVADORAN CITIES.</p><p>THE SOURCE ADDED THAT THERE COULD BE MORE THAN 300 WOUNDED CIVILIANS AND MILITARY MEN.</p><p>COPREFA STATED THAT 127 GUERRILLAS AND ABOUT 50 ARMY TROOPS WERE REPORTED DEAD EARLY THIS MORNING, BUT THE FIGURES ARE GROWING BECAUSE STRONG FIGHTING CONTINUES THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE NORTHERN AREA OF THE CAPITAL AND THE COUNTRY'S EASTERN AREA.</p><p>THE ROSALES HOSPITAL, THE MAIN ONE IN THE CAPITAL, WAS ASSISTING MORE THAN 100 CIVILIANS WOUNDED IN THE INTENSE CLASHES THAT HAVE TAKEN PLACE SINCE 11 NOVEMBER WHILE MEDICAL AUTHORITIES ARE CALLING ON DOCTORS AND NURSES TO HELP THE WOUNDED.</p><p>ANOTHER 100 WOUNDED WERE TAKEN TO THE SOCIAL SECURITY HOSPITAL AND ABOUT 100 MORE WERE TAKEN TO OTHER HOSPITALS IN THE CAPITAL AND COUNTRYSIDE.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE SANTA TERESA HOSPITAL IN ZACATECOLUCA, 56 KM EAST OF THE CAPITAL, WAS OCCUPIED BY THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) GUERRILLAS THIS MORNING. FIGHTING INTENSIFIED IN THE IMMEDIATE AREA THIS MORNING.</p><p>THERE WAS FIERCE FIGHTING IN ZACATECOLUCA TODAY AND ACCORDING TO PRESS REPORTS, 13 BODIES WERE SEEN ON THE STREETS; EIGHT GUERRILLAS, FOUR SOLDIERS, AND A CIVILIAN.</p><p>THE GUERRILLAS, WHO, CARRYING AK-47 RIFLES AND PISTOLS, HAVE ASKED FOR WATER AND FOOD IN SOME HOUSES, HAVE OCCUPIED FIVE NEIGHBORHOODS IN SAN MIGUEL, THE THIRD MOST IMPORTANT CITY IN THE COUNTRY, 140 KM FROM THE CAPITAL. SAN MIGUEL AND ZACATECOLUCA HAVE NO ELECTRICITY OR WATER TODAY.</p><p>ACCORDING TO GUERRILLA SOURCES, SAN VICENTE AND USULUTAN, IN THE COUNTRY'S EAST-CENTRAL AREA, WERE SITES OF FIERCE FIGHTING THIS MORNING.</p></body></html>