<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0471"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0471"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0471</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0471 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>LIMA, 12 SEP 89 (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [TEXT] FOREIGN MINISTER GUILLERMO LARCO COX TODAY LABELED THE U.S. AID TO FIGHT DRUG TRAFFICKING IN SOUTH AMERICA AS MEAGER. HE SAID THAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT SHOULD RECONSIDER THE AID GIVEN TO FIGHT DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [LARCO] I UNDERSTAND THE U.S. GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATED AN AMOUNT WITHOUT PREVIOUS STUDY AND WITHOUT CONSULTING WITH THE COUNTRIES INVOLVED. IF THAT IS TRUE, THE U.S. AID CAN JUSTIFIABLY BE CALLED RIDICULOUS.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT CONTACTS HAVE YOU HAD WITH THE U.S. GOVERNMENT TO EXPLAIN THAT THE RESOURCES APPROPRIATED TO FIGHT DRUG TRAFFICKING ARE NOT ENOUGH?</p><p>[LARCO] THE CONTACTS WILL BE MADE DURING THE MEETINGS TO BE HELD BY THE PRESIDENTS OF BOLIVIA, COLOMBIA, AND PERU WITH U.S. PRESIDENT BUSH. THE TALKS THERE WILL BE FRANK AND THE MISTAKES MADE CAN THEN BE CORRECTED.</p><p>[REPORTER] COLOMBIA IS FACING A SERIOUS PROBLEM IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING. WHAT ACTION IS THE FOREIGN MINISTRY TAKING TO SUPPORT COLOMBIA?</p><p>[LARCO] THE PRESIDENT IS THE ONE WHO RUNS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, AND PRESIDENT GARCIA'S DECISION TO VISIT PRESIDENT BARCO AND TO HONOR ASSASSINATED SENATOR GALAN SHOWS THE PRESIDENT'S SUPPORT FOR COLOMBIA AND THE DIRECTION OF THE FOREIGN MINISTRY'S ACTIVITIES. IN ADDITION TO THAT, WE ARE WORKING WITH THE COLOMBIAN AND BOLIVIAN FOREIGN MINISTRIES TO PREPARE AN AGENDA AS A BASIS FOR A TRIPARTITE MEETING, AS A FIRST STAGE BEFORE THE MEETING WITH PRESIDENT BUSH. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>