<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0760"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0760"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="WASHINGTON DC (UNITED STATES)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0760</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0760 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>WASHINGTON DC (UNITED STATES), 16 NOV 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] SALVADORAN FOREIGN MINISTER JOSE MANUEL PACAS CASTRO TODAY CONDEMNED THE ASSASSINATION OF SIX JESUITS AND TWO WOMEN IN HIS COUNTRY, AND HE BLAMED THE ULTRALEFTIST GROUPS FOR IT, ALTHOUGH HE SAID HE HAD NO PROOF.</p><p>"IT IS A REPUGNANT CRIME," SAID THE FOREIGN MINISTER, WHO WAS ATTENDING THE 19TH OAS GENERAL ASSEMBLY, AND HE DESCRIBED THE ASSASSINATIONS AS A "DESPERATE ACTION TAKEN BY THE LEFT."</p><p>JOAO BAENA SOARES, SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE OAS, WAS ASKED TODAY TO REPORT TO THE ASSEMBLY ON THE SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE RESOLUTION ON THAT COUNTRY THAT WAS APPROVED ON TUESDAY.</p><p>A COMMUNIQUE RELEASED TODAY BY A FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] SPOKESMAN IN WASHINGTON BLAMED THE SALVADORAN ARMY FOR THE CRIME, AND ADDED THAT "ALL OF THE BODIES HAD BULLET WOUNDS IN THE HEAD, INDICATING THAT THEY WERE EXECUTED."</p><p>PACAS CASTRO SAID TODAY THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT, HEADED BY ALFREDO CRISTIANI, WILL MAINTAIN ITS COMMITMENT TO A DIALOGUE TO DISCUSS THE SUSPENSION OF THE HOSTILITIES AND TO IMPLEMENT AN INTERNAL PEACE PROCESS.</p><p>MOREOVER, HE ANNOUNCED THAT AN OFFICIAL MISSION, CAPABLE OF MAKING DECISIONS AND COMMITMENTS, WILL TRAVEL TO CARACAS IN THE HOPE OF MEETING WITH REPRESENTATIVES OF THE FMLN GUERRILLAS.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN FOREIGN MINISTER SAID THE SITUATION IN HIS COUNTRY IS UNDER CONTROL AND THAT ARMY TROOPS ARE SLOWLY MOVING INTO THE DENSELY POPULATED AREAS TO AVOID BLOODSHED AMONG THE CIVILIAN POPULATION.</p><p>AS FOR A REQUEST BY THE INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS TO CALL FOR A CEASE-FIRE FOR HUMANITARIAN REASONS TO TREAT THE WOUNDED AND CIVILIAN VICTIMS, PACAS CASTRO SAID THAT THE FIRST-AID BRIGADES CONTINUE TO DO THEIR WORK IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>AS FOR THE ASSASSINATION OF THE SIX JESUITS AND THE TWO WOMEN, HE SAID "HE CONDEMNED THIS TYPE OF VIOLENCE" BECAUSE IGNACIO ELLACURIA, ONE OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS WHO WAS KILLED, "WAS MY TEACHER," AND HE DESCRIBED THE PRIEST AS A VERY VALUABLE MAN WHO WORKED FOR PEACE AND FOR THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE POPULATION.</p><p>COSTA RICAN FOREIGN MINISTER RODRIGO MADRIGAL NIETO, IN STATEMENTS TO THE PRESS, REGRETTED THE DEATH OF THE CLERGYMEN. "WORKING FOR PEACE IS VERY DIFFICULT," HE SAID.</p><p>MADRIGAL NIETO SAID TODAY HE HOPED THE DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE GUERRILLAS WOULD CONTINUE DESPITE THE WAR.</p><p>GUATEMALAN FOREIGN MINISTER ARIEL RIVERA IRIAS SUPPORTED THE STATEMENTS OF HIS COSTA RICAN COLLEAGUE, AND HE CONDEMNED THE USE OF VIOLENCE AS A POLITICAL TOOL.</p></body></html>