<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1259"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1259"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MEXICO CITY (MEXICO)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1259</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1259 (BOEING)</p><p>MEXICO CITY (MEXICO), 2 MAY 90 (NOTIMEX) -- [TEXT] THE 19 APRIL MOVEMENT [M - 19] TODAY ACCUSED THE COLOMBIAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICES OF ASSASSINATING M-19 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE CARLOS PIZARRO.</p><p>"WE ATTRIBUTE PIZARRO'S DEATH TO THE COLOMBIAN SECURITY SERVICES," SAID M-19 DIRECTORATE MEMBER RAFAEL VERGARA DURING A NEWS CONFERENCE HELD IN MEXICO CITY.</p><p>THE POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC COMMISSION OF THE FORMER REBEL GROUP TURNED POLITICAL PARTY HAS PROPOSED THE CREATION OF AN INTERNATIONAL GROUP TO PERMANENTLY PROTECT THE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES' LIVES.</p><p>MIGUEL MARIN, ALSO A MEMBER OF THE M-19'S DIRECTORATE, POINTED OUT THE NEED FOR VARIOUS INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS TO DESIGNATE POLITICAL PERSONALITIES WHO WOULD ACCOMPANY EACH OF THE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES ON THEIR CAMPAIGNS.</p><p>"WE INTEND TO CHECK THE TRIGGERS OF THE COLOMBIAN OLIGARCHY, WHO ARE TO BLAME FOR THE ASSASSINATION OF FOUR PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES IN THE PAST FEW YEARS," THE POLITICAL MOVEMENT'S REPRESENTATIVES SAID.</p><p>THEY DENIED THAT THE M-19 IS IN FAVOR OF DRUG TRAFFICKING, BUT ADVOCATED THE LEGALIZATION OF DRUGS AND THE NONEXTRADITION OF DRUG PRODUCERS.</p><p>THE M-19 MEMBERS SAID THAT THE CLARIFICATION OF THEIR TOP LEADER'S DEATH IS ESSENTIAL FOR THE CREDIBILITY OF VIRGILIO BARCO'S REGIME. THEY SAID THAT PIZARRO'S BASIC PROPOSALS TO PACIFY THE COUNTRY WILL BE TAKEN UP BY ANTONIO NAVARRO WOLFF, WHO REPLACED PIZARRO AS THE M-19'S PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE.</p><p>THEY ASKED THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TO HELP PUT AN END TO THE ARMS TRAFFIC TO COLOMBIA, BECAUSE IN 1989 FOREIGN INVESTMENT INCREASED BY 148 PERCENT OVER THAT OF 1988.</p><p>"WHAT COLOMBIA NEEDS IS TO ATTAIN PEACE WITH SOCIAL JUSTICE. FOR THIS REASON, IT IS NECESSARY TO TALK AND NEGOTIATE WITH ALL OF THE INFLUENTIAL SECTORS IN COLOMBIA, INCLUDING THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS," VERGARA AND MARIN POINTED OUT.</p></body></html>