<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0762"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0762"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0762</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0762 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 16 NOV 89 (CADENA REVOLUCIONARIA NACIONAL) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, FMLN] [TEXT] IN VIEW OF THE SINISTER MASSACRE OF JESUIT PRIESTS TODAY, THE FMLN REPORTS THE FOLLOWING TO THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE:</p><p>1. THE MASSACRE OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS IGNACIO ELLACURIA, SEGUNDO MONTES, IGNACIO MARTIN BARO, JOAQUIN LOPEZ, AMANDO LOPEZ, AND JUAN RAMON MORENO, ALONG WITH MRS JULIA ELBA RAMOS AND HER DAUGHTER CELINA RAMOS, WAS PERPETRATED BY ARMED FORCES DEATH SQUADS AT DAWN TODAY.</p><p>A GROUP OF ABOUT 30 MEN DRESSED IN GREEN STORMED INTO THE PRIESTS' RESIDENCE AND RIDDLED THEM WITH BULLETS FIRED FROM HEAVY CALIBER WEAPONS. THREE OF THE BODIES WERE DRAGGED OUT TO THE PATIO WHERE THEY WERE GIVEN DEATH BLOWS THAT COMPLETELY CRUSHED THEIR SKULLS.</p><p>2. THIS ABSURD MASSACRE AND THE GENOCIDAL BOMBINGS AGAINST HEAVILY POPULATED AREAS IN SAN SALVADOR AND SAN MIGUEL HAVE BEEN ORDERED BY ALFREDO CRISTIANI AND THE ARMED FORCES' HIGH COMMAND, AND ARE PART OF A COUNTERINSURGENT PLAN TO DESTROY THE POLITICAL OPPOSITION AND CREATE A STATE OF TERROR AMONG THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. PUBLIC DEATH THREATS WERE MADE AGAINST PRIEST IGNACIO ELLACURIA OVER THE ARMED FORCES NATIONAL NETWORK.</p><p>THE NIGHT OF WEDNESDAY, 15 NOVEMBER, THE SECURITY CORPS SEARCHED THE OFFICES OF THE OPPOSITION GROUPS LOOKING FOR THE LEADERS IN ORDER TO KILL THEM. THIS IS THE SAME SCHEME THEY USED IN 1979 AND 1980 WHEN THEY MURDERED MONSIGNOR ROMERO AND MASSACRED THE REVOLUTIONARY DEMOCRATIC FRONT LEADERS, UNIVERSITY RECTOR DR FELIX ULLOA, AND TENS OF THOUSANDS OF SALVADORANS.</p><p>3. THERE IS NO ROOM FOR DOUBT THAT THE ARENA [NATIONALIST REVOLUTIONARY ALLIANCE] REGIME AND THE ARMED FORCES ARE FASCIST BEASTS THAT HAVE BEEN MORTALLY WOUNDED. THEREFORE, WE CALL ON DEMOCRATIC PEOPLES AND RELIGIOUS LEADERS TO PROTEST SUCH AN UNFORTUNATE MASSACRE, AND ON THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TO ISOLATE THE FASCIST REGIME OF ALFREDO CRISTIANI.</p><p>4. WE CALL ON THE ARMED FORCES OFFICERS WHO KNEW FATHER IGNACIO ELLACURIA -- AND RESPECTED HIM FOR HIS PAST HISTORY IN THE FIELDS OF EDUCATION, RESEARCH, AND SCIENTIFIC ANALYSIS OF THE TRUE SITUATION -- TO TAKE A DIGNIFIED AND DETERMINED STAND AND NOT STAIN THEIR HANDS WITH THE BLOOD OF GENOCIDE.</p><p>THERE HAVE ALWAYS BEEN HONEST PATRIOTS IN THE ARMED FORCES WHO DO NOT HAVE TO SINK WITH THE CRIMINALS. WE OFFER THEM OUR HANDS, SO THAT TOGETHER WE WILL SAVE THE COUNTRY, AND SO THEY WILL BE ABLE TO SAVE PART OF THE ARMED FORCES. ALFREDO CRISTIANI AND THE ARMED FORCES ASSASSINATED THE JESUIT PRIESTS, BUT THEY ARE COMMITTING SUICIDE.</p><p>5. THE FMLN CONDEMNS THIS CRIME AND JOINS IN THE SORROW OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WHO LOSE IN SUCH AN ABSURD MANNER SOME OF THE MOST APPRECIATED INTELLECTUALS OF OUR COUNTRY. THEIR INTELLIGENCE AND SENSIBILITY WERE ALWAYS AT THE SERVICE OF CHANGE AND PROGRESS IN OUR SOCIETY. THEIR WORK WILL BE ETERNAL, AND THE FASCIST IRRATIONALITY WILL NEVER PUT AN END TO THAT WORK.</p><p>WE CALL ALL OF OUR COMMANDS, FIGHTERS, MILITANTS, AND OUR PEOPLE IN GENERAL, TO UNTIRING COMBAT. THIS STRUGGLE IS THE ONLY ANSWER WE HAVE FOR THIS DESPICABLE MASSACRE. WE MUST OUST ARENA AND LA TANDONA [1966 GRADUATING CLASS OF THE GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY SCHOOL]. THE FATHERLAND IS COUNTING ON OUR STRENGTH AND OUR DETERMINATION, AND WE WILL NOT FAIL THE FATHERLAND.</p><p>[SIGNED] FMLN GENERAL COMMAND: COMMANDER SHAFIK JORGE HANDAL, COMMANDER JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS, COMMANDER FRANCISCO JOVEL, COMMANDER SALVADOR SANCHEZ CEREN, COMMANDER EDUARDO SANCHO</p><p>16 NOVEMBER 1989</p></body></html>