<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1258"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1258"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1258</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1258 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 2 MAY 90 (RADIO CADENA SONORA) -- [TEXT] COMMUNIQUE ISSUED BY THE GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FMLN: WE ANNOUNCE THAT BETWEEN THE NIGHT OF 1 MAY AND THE EARLY MORNING OF 2 MAY, OUR FORCES CONDUCTED SEVERAL MILITARY OPERATIONS IN SAN SALVADOR AND OTHER CITIES OF THE COUNTRY IN RESPONSE TO:</p><p>1. THE PREVAILING TOTAL IMPUNITY OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES IN VIOLATING HUMAN RIGHTS, AS DEMONSTRATED BY THE STANDSTILL REACHED IN THE TRIAL, THE EVIDENT COVER UP OF THE MASTERMINDS OF THE ASSASSINATION OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS, THE RELEASE OF THE GROUP OF KIDNAPPERS, AND THE RECENT MURDER OF A UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR AND A COOPERATIVE LEADER.</p><p>2. THE MILITARY OFFENSIVE LAUNCHED BY THE ARMED FORCES IN RURAL AREAS WITH INDISCRIMINATE BOMBINGS AND ARRESTS OF CIVILIANS.</p><p>3. THE ARROGANT AND BOASTFUL ATTITUDE OF THE GOVERNMENT AND THE MILITARY BECAUSE OF AN ALLEGED WEAKNESS SHOWN BY THE FMLN, WHICH OBSTRUCTS THE NEGOTIATION PROCESS.</p><p>4. THE UNPOPULAR ECONOMIC MEASURES AND THE PLANS TO CARRY OUT THE BIGGEST ECONOMIC FRAUD AND ACT OF CORRUPTION IN OUR COUNTRY'S HISTORY WITH THE PRIVATIZATION OF BANKS.</p><p>WE BELIEVE THAT:</p><p>1. THE U.S. CONGRESSIONAL PLAN TO CUT ONLY 50 PERCENT OF THE MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO THE GOVERNMENT IS NOT ENOUGH. ANY ASSISTANCE TO TERRORIST ARMED FORCES ONLY CONTRIBUTES TO WAR AND REDUCES THE POSSIBILITY FOR A SHORT-TERM CEASE-FIRE AGREEMENT.</p><p>2. AS LONG AS THERE ARE NO GUARANTEES FOR THE ENTIRE SOCIETY, AS LONG AS CRIMES COMMITTED BY THE MILITARY GO UNPUNISHED, AND AS LONG AS REPRESSION DOES NOT STOP, WAR WILL CONTINUE.</p><p>FINALLY WE REITERATE OUR WILLINGNESS TO CONTINUE THE NEGOTIATION PROCESS. CONSEQUENTLY, WE HAVE ALREADY PRESENTED OUR POSITIONS TO THE GOVERNMENT AND ARE AWAITING ITS REPLY SO THAT WE CAN START HOLDING THE NEGOTIATIONS. [SIGNED] GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FMLN</p><p>EL SALVADOR, 2 MAY 1990</p></body></html>