<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0851"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0851"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0851</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0851 (GTE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 22 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] MR. WALKER, WHEN WILL YOU TELL YOUR PRESIDENT BUSH TO STOP BEING SO RUDE. HE HAS BEEN TALKING TOO MUCH. [WORDS INDISTINCT] HEAR YOUR OWN PEOPLE SPEAK DEMANDING PEACE. THIS IS NOT RIGHT. IS THIS IS THE DEMOCRACY YOU PEOPLE WANT TO EXIST HERE? BUT YOU PEOPLE ARE WRONG, MR. WALKER. IT WILL BE IMPOSSIBLE HERE BECAUSE THE PEOPLE ARE A VOLCANO IN ERUPTION. WHOEVER PUTS HIS HAND IN THE FIRE WILL GET BURNED, MR. WALKER. STOP STICKING YOUR NOSE INTO SOMEONE ELSE'S BUSINESS. YOU SHOULD RATHER SEND AWAY, ONCE AND FOR ALL, THOSE COUNTRYMEN OF YOURS WHO HAVE BEEN SENT HERE AS ADVISERS. THEY ARE ADVISERS, ALL RIGHT, BUT OF THE DEATH SQUADS. I HAVE JUST ONE PIECE OF ADVICE FOR YOU. UNDERSTAND ONCE AND FOR ALL THAT WHOEVER PUTS HIS HAND IN THE FIRE WILL GET BURNED. THE LAVA OF THIS ERUPTING VOLCANO IS BOILING, MR. WALKER. UNDERSTAND THAT THE PEOPLE WILL NOT TAKE ONE STEP BACK. ALL FOR PEACE.</p><p>WE HAVE BEEN READING THE SUMMARY OF OUR NEWS MONITORING. U.S. PENTAGON MILITARY OFFICIALS AND MANY NONMILITARY ANALYSTS ARE SURPRISED OVER WHAT THEY CALL THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT'S OFFENSIVE CAPABILITIES. A REPORT STATES THAT PENTAGON OFFICIALS ARE VERY SURPRISED OVER THE FMLN MANEUVERABILITY AND OFFENSIVE CAPABILITIES. THE FMLN ACTIONS OF THE PAST DAYS HAS SPOILED ALL THE INTELLIGENCE REPORTS THAT SALVADORAN MILITARY MEN SENT TO U.S. OFFICIALS CONTAINING INFORMATION ON THE FMLN MANPOWER-WEAPONS RATIO AND OUR MILITARY ABILITY TO OPERATE.</p><p>THE FMLN HAS NEVER LOST ITS MILITARY CAPABILITIES. SOME ANALYSTS VIEW THE SALVADORAN WAR AS A WAR BETWEEN TWO ARMIES. THAT IS A MISTAKE BECAUSE THE SALVADORAN WAR IS NOT A WAR BETWEEN TWO ARMIES. IT CANNOT BE VIEWED AS IF IT WERE A REGULAR WAR SUCH AS THE IRAN-IRAQ WAR. EL SALVADOR IS LIVING THROUGH CONFLICT THAT IS MAINLY SOCIAL IN NATURE, A CONFLICT THAT IS ROOTED IN SOCIAL INJUSTICE. THE FMLN DID NOT EMERGE FROM A MILITARY SCHOOL WITH A REARGUARD IN ANOTHER COUNTRY, BUT IT IS MADE UP OF THE PEOPLE THEMSELVES. FMLN COMBATANTS HAVE LEARNED TO FIGHT IN ACTUAL CLASHES. THEY HAVE GAINED GROUND INCH BY INCH; IT HAS ORGANIZED THE PEOPLE. THE FMLN DOES NOT FORCEFULLY RECRUIT PEOPLE. THEREFORE, IT IS NOT PERIODICALLY RENEWING ITS RANKS AS THE ARMY DOES THROUGH FORCEFUL RECRUITMENT. TO THE FMLN, THE MAIN GOAL IS TO ORGANIZE THE PEOPLE, TO GET AS CLOSE AS IT CAN TO THE PEOPLE.</p><p>BECAUSE OF THE ECONOMIC CRISIS, SOCIAL INJUSTICE, AND LACK OF DEMOCRATIC OPPORTUNITIES IN [EL] SALVADOR, THOUSANDS OF SALVADORANS HAVE NO OTHER OPTION THAN TO TAKE UP ARMS AND FIGHT TO ACHIEVE BETTER LIVING CONDITIONS IN THE FACE OF THE GOVERNMENT'S BRUTAL REPRESSION, ECONOMIC INJUSTICE, AND UNEMPLOYMENT. TO CHANGE THIS SITUATION, THOUSANDS OF SALVADORANS DECIDED TO TAKE UP ARMS AND LEARN TO WAGE WAR BY FIGHTING DAIILY. THAT IS THE HISTORY OF THE FMLN.</p><p>THEREFORE, IT CANNOT BE SAID THAT TWO ARMIES ARE FIGHTING EACH OTHER. THE LOGISTICS APPARATUS OF THE FASCIST GOVERNMENT' [ARMED] FORCES IS NOT COMPARABLE TO OUR FORCES. THEY BRING TO OUR COUNTRY TONS OF BOMBS, RIFLES, BOOTS, AND MATERIAL THROUGH PORTS AND MILITARY AIRPORTS. ALTHOUGH THE GOVERNMENTS OF NICARAGUA, CUBA, AND THE USSR COULD HELP THE FMLN, AS MANY ARE SAYING, THE FIREPOWER OF OUR FORCES COULD NEVER BE COMPARED TO THE ARMY'S.</p><p>NEVERTHELESS, THE FMLN HAS OPENED IN ALL COUNTRIES, INCLUDING THE [UNITED] STATES, THE NECESSARY WAYS FOR US TO OBTAIN OUR ARMS AND AMMUNITION. WE HAVE THE RIGHT TO THIS. HOW DOES THE FMLN LEARN TO FIGHT-- BY FIGHTING. WE ARE NOW FIGHTING IN CITIES. EVERY MILITARY ANALYST KNOWS HOW DIFFICULT IT IS TO FIGHT IN URBAN AREAS. THE FMLN FIGHTING IN SAN SALVADOR, SAN MIGUEL, ZACATECOLUCA, AND USULUTAN HAS SHOWN THE ORGANIZATION'S TREMENDOUS ABILITY TO WEAR OUT THE ENEMY, TAKE AND HOLD POSITIONS, AND MANEUVER IN THE CITY JUST AS IT HAS DONE IN RURAL AREAS. THE FMLN ABILITY HAS SURPRISED THE MILITARY ANALYSTS AT THE PENTAGON. OUR FRONT HAS ALWAYS HAD THIS ABILITY. BUT NOW WE HAVE CHANGED OUR STRATEGY AND TACTICS TO DEFEAT THE ENEMY PLANS. THE [ARMED] FORCES HAVE A SPECIFIC PLAN REGARDING THE ACTIONS BY PATROLS [WORDS INDISTINCT], SPECIAL OPERATIONS. THE FMLN HAD TO CHANGE ITS STRATEGY TO STRIKE AT THE SMALL FORCES THAT TRIED TO INFILTRATE OUR ZONE UNDER COVER. ONLY THUS COULD WE ANNIHILATE AND DEFEAT THESE FORCES AND THEIR STRATEGY. AND THIS IS WHAT WE DID. THIS IS WHAT MUST BE OBSERVED, HOW THE FMLN HAS CHANGED ITS MILITARY STRATEGY TO FACE THE ONE USED BY THE [ARMED] FORCES. OF COURSE, WE HAVE ACCUMULATED GREAT EXPERIENCE OVER THE YEARS, WHICH WE HAVE APPLIED THESE LAST DAYS IN COMBAT IN [SAN] SALVADOR AND [SAN] MIGUEL. ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIERS ARE BEING DESTROYED IN STREETS AND AVENUES; HELICOPTERS ARE BEING SHOT DOWN; SOLDIERS ARE BEING TAKEN PRISONER; AND ARMS ARE BEING SEIZED.</p><p>MILITARY ANALYSTS ARE WONDERING HOW A GUERRILLA ARMY CAN OPERATE FOR SO LONG IN AN URBAN AREA. IN ADDITION, LOGISTICS MUST BE TAKEN INTO CONSIDERATION. THE [ARMED] FORCES ARE CONSTANTLY GETTING AMMUNITION THROUGH THE ILOPANGO [AIR] BASE. THE FMLN HAS BEEN ABLE TO CARRY OUT THIS OPERATION BECAUSE OF THE PEOPLE'S SUPPORT. THOUSANDS OF CAPITAL RESIDENTS COOPERATED BY KEEPING SILENT WHEN THEY SAW THE GUERRILLA COLUMNS PASS BY. THEY DID NOT WARN THE [ARMED] FORCES. WHY? BECAUSE THE PEOPLE SEE IN THESE GUERRILLA COLUMNS THEIR OWN ARMY.</p></body></html>