<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0389"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0389"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0389</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0389 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 28 AUG 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [REPORT] [GLADYS VARGAS] [TEXT] TERRORISM CONTINUES IN MEDELLIN. THE METROPOLITAN POLICE THIS MORNING DEFUSED FIVE BOMBS AND ARRESTED FIVE SUSPECTS. DURING THE OPERATION, THE POLICE RECOVERED SEWING MACHINES [MAQUINAS DE CORSAR] WORTH 25 MILLION PESOS. A VEHICLE AND A MOTORCYCLE WERE CONFISCATED.</p><p>FOUR POLICE AGENTS FROM THE [WORDS INDISTINCT] BOYACA COMMAND KIDNAPPED BY THE SO-CALLED ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION [ELN] WERE RELEASED ON 27 AUGUST AT 1800 IN GRENADA, EASTERN ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT. THE POLICE AGENTS WERE KIDNAPPED ON 14 AUGUST. POLICE AGENTS JESUS BERNARDO BUSTOS, MIGUEL ANGEL GARCIA, JAIRO VARGAS, AND ESTEBAN GALVIZ WERE RETURNING TO TAMA AFTER PARTICIPATING IN THE NATIONAL POLICE ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATIONS WHEN THEY WERE KIDNAPPED ON THE MEDELLIN-BOGOTA HIGHWAY.</p><p>THE RELEASED POLICEMEN HAVE NOT SPOKEN TO THEIR SUPERIORS YET AND THEREFORE COULD NOT TALK TO THE MEDIA. THE ELN REPORTED THAT IT TREATED THE POLICEMEN WELL AND THAT THIS RELEASE IS AN ACTION IN FAVOR OF A MORE HUMANIZED WAR, WHICH IS A SLOGAN THESE GUERRILLAS HAVE PROCLAIMED IN THE PAST 5 YEARS. SHORTLY BEFORE THE RELEASE OF THESE POLICEMEN, THE ELN KIDNAPPED ELIECER DE JESUS ACEVEDO OLARTE, THE MAYOR OF ZARAGOZA MUNICIPALITY, IN ANTOQUIA DEPARTMENT.</p></body></html>