<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0831"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0831"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0831</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0831 (PRC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 21 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] WE HAVE SEEN DISPATCHES RELEASED BY U.S. NEWS AGENCIES REPORTING THAT THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] HAS TAKEN HOSTAGES. THE FMLN DOES NOT TAKE HOSTAGES; OUR ACTIONS ARE NOT AGAINST FOREIGNERS. THEREFORE, NO HOSTAGES HAVE BEEN TAKEN. THE FMLN ENSURES THE SAFETY OF ALL FOREIGNERS WHO MAY BE TRAPPED IN THE AREAS OF CONFLICT AREAS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY. THE FMLN DOES NOT TAKE HOSTAGES, IT IS NOT THE WAY THE FMLN OPERATES. THEREFORE, ONCE AND FOR ALL WE WISH TO STATE THAT THERE ARE NO FOREIGNERS BEING HELD HOSTAGE BY THE FMLN. THE FMLN DOES NOT TAKE HOSTAGES. THEREFORE, THE INFORMATION BEING RELEASED BY THE U.S. NEWS AGENCIES IS NOT TRUE. THE FMLN DOES NOT TAKE HOSTAGES. THERE IS NO REASON WHY WE SHOULD TAKE HOSTAGES, WE ARE NOT TERRORISTS. WE DO NOT HOLD FOREIGNERS HOSTAGE AS SOME U.S. NEWS AGENCIES ARE REPORTING.</p><p>WE WILL BE RELEASING A COMMUNIQUE ON THIS MATTER SHORTLY. HOWEVER, WE WISH TO STATE THAT THE FMLN DOES NOT TAKE HOSTAGES. THE FOREIGN DISPATCHES RELEASED ARE GROUNDLESS. THE DISPATCHES STATE THAT THE FMLN IS HOLDING FOREIGNERS HOSTAGE. THAT IS NOT TRUE; WE DO NOT TAKE HOSTAGES, IT IS NOT OUR POLICY. WE ARE CLARIFYING THIS FOR THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS AND INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY. WE DO NOT WANT THEM TO BE CAUGHT OFF GUARD BY THE INFORMATION BEING RELEASED BY FOREIGN NEWS AGENCIES.</p><p>THERE ARE NO HOSTAGES, TAKING HOSTAGES IS NOT OUR POLICY. IF A FOREIGN CITIZEN -- U.S. CITIZEN OR ANY OTHER FOREIGNER -- IS TRAPPED IN AREAS OF CONFLICT, THE FMLN WILL ENSURE HIS SAFETY. OUR FIGHTERS HAVE BEEN ORDERED TO PROTECT THE PHYSICAL INTEGRITY OF ANY CITIZEN AFFECTED BY THE CURRENT SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>WE WISH TO BE VERY CLEAR THAT THERE ARE NO HOSTAGES, IT IS NOT THE FMLN POLICY TO HOLD HOSTAGES.</p></body></html>