<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0878"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0878"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0878</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0878 (GTE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 26 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] A FEW DAYS AFTER THE START OF THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] OFFENSIVE, THE RESULTS ARE COMPLETELY POSITIVE. FIRST OF ALL, WE ARE SEEING THE TOTAL POLITICAL DEFEAT OF THE DEMOCRACY AND COUNTERINSURGENCY PLAN BECAUSE THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN UNMASKED AS A FASCIST DICTATORSHIP.</p><p>THE U.S. COUNTERINSURGENCY MODEL TRIED TO LEGITIMIZE, THROUGH AN ELECTORAL PROCESS, A QUOTE, DEMOCRATIC, UNQUOTE, GOVERNMENT WHICH WOULD LEAVE THE GROWING POPULAR INSURGENCY IN EL SALVADOR WITH NO REASON TO EXIST. THAT MODEL HAS OVERWHELMINGLY FAILED BECAUSE, INSTEAD OF AN EVEN TIMIDLY DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT, WHAT HAS BEEN INSTALLED IS A REGIME THAT DOES NOT EVEN TOLERATE THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY, WHICH IT VIEWS AS A GREAT TRAITOR TO THE FATHERLAND. A REGIME HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED WHICH DOES NOT PERMIT THE MOST MINIMAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE FREE EXPRESSION OF THOUGHT. IT DOES NOT TOLERATE THE EXISTENCE OF AN OBJECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT NEWSCAST, SUCH AS THAT OF TELEVISION CANAL DOCE. IT IS A REGIME WHICH DEMANDS THAT THE HIGHEST LEADERS OF THE CHURCH LEAVE THE COUNTRY BECAUSE IT DOES NOT GUARANTEE THEIR SECURITY. IT IS A REGIME THAT ISSUES TOTALLY UNDEMOCRATIC LAWS AND CLOSES ALL POLITICAL OPPORTUNITIES. IN SHORT, IT IS A REGIME IN A STATE OF EMERGENCY. IT IS A FASCIST REGIME WITH ALL ITS COMPONENTS. THAT IS THE FINAL RESULT OF THE U.S. EFFORTS TO ESTABLISH A COUNTERINSURGENT DEMOCRATIC REGIME IN EL SALVADOR. THE LITTLE LEGITIMACY THAT THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT AT ONE POINT ENJOYED WAS DESTROYED WHEN IT HAD TO COVER UP AND PERMIT THE ASSASSINATION OF SIX JESUIT PRIESTS TO GO UNPUNISHED, AND WHEN IT INDISCRIMINATELY BOMBED THE MORE DENSELY POPULATED AREAS OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>A FEW DAYS OF THE OFFENSIVE HAVE BEEN ENOUGH TO TEAR DOWN THE FOUNDATIONS OF THE ERRONEOUS U.S. POLICY IN OUR COUNTRY. AND THE VALIDITY OF THAT POLICY HAS BEGUN TO BE SERIOUSLY QUESTIONED IN THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>A SECOND GREAT ACHIEVEMENT OF THESE FIRST WEEKS OF THE OFFENSIVE HAS BEEN A RADICAL CHANGE IN THE THEATERS OF OPERATION. WE HAVE PLACED THE WAR IN ITS FINAL PHASE, IN ITS PHASE OF STRATEGIC DEFINITION. THERE HAS BEEN AN ABRUPT CHANGE IN WHAT HAD APPEARED TO BE AN ENDLESS WAR AND AN UNBREAKABLE BALANCE OF FORCES. THE TRANSFER OF THE THEATERS OF OPERATION TO THE CITIES HAS RESULTED IN A STRATEGIC SIEGE OF THE CITIES, WHICH ARE THE WEAK SPOTS OF THE POLITICAL, ECONOMIC, AND SOCIAL POWER. IN TURN, AS WE HAVE PREVIOUSLY POINTED OUT, THIS HAS BROUGHT ABOUT AN ACCELERATED POLITICAL BREAKDOWN OF THE REGIME. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>