<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0365"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0365"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0365</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0365 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 22 AUG 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION: HERE IS A LAST MINUTE REPORT. GLORIA CONGOTTI HAS JUST ARRIVED AT OUR STUDIOS FROM THE DIJIN [DIRECTORATE OF JUDICIAL POLICE AND INVESTIGATIONS] WITH VIDEO CLIPS OF FIVE MEN SUSPECTED OF KILLING LIBERAL PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE LUIS CARLOS GALAN SARMIENTO. THEIR NAMES ARE ARMANDO BERNAL ACOSTA, NORBERTO MURILLO CHALATA, PEDRO ZAMBRANO DELGADO, LUIS ALFREDO GONZALEZ CHACON, AND LUIS HASBUN.</p><p>THE FIVE SUSPECTS WERE ARRESTED AT 4-A ROAD, NO 1978, IN MEZZANINE 1, BOGOTA, WHERE AN OFFICE SUPPOSEDLY OPERATED. THEY ARE CURRENTLY BEING HELD AT THE DIJIN FACILITIES. ACCORDING TO AUTHORITIES, THEIR FEATURES COINCIDE WITH THE COMPOSITE SKETCH PREPARED BY THE JUDICIAL POLICE BASED ON THE DESCRIPTIONS GIVEN BY WITNESSES.</p><p>THE INDIVIDUALS SUSPECTED OF KILLING LUIS CARLOS GALAN SARMIENTO LAST FRIDAY WILL BE TURNED OVER TO THE THIRD PUBLIC ORDER COURT, WHICH WILL BE IN CHARGE OF INVESTIGATING THIS CRIME THAT HAS SHAKEN COLOMBIA AND THE ENTIRE WORLD.</p><p>IF ANYONE WHO WAS PRESENT AT THE SOACHA SQUARE FRIDAY NIGHT RECOGNIZES ANYONE OF THESE SUSPECTS, PLEASE CALL DIJIN. OF COURSE, THE NAMES OF THOSE WHO CALL WILL BE KEPT SECRET.</p></body></html>