<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1181"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1181"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1181</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1181 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 22 MAR 90 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] OTTO SORTO MILLA, THE SON-IN-LAW OF GENERAL RAFAEL VILLAMARIONA, CHIEF OF THE SALVADORAN AIR FORCE, WAS WOUNDED IN AN ATTACK IN SAN SALVADOR TODAY AND IS IN "SERIOUS CONDITION," ACCORDING TO MILITARY SPOKESMEN AND DOCTORS.</p><p>THE SOURCES POINTED OUT THAT SORTO MILLA, 25, WAS MACHINEGUNNED FROM A MOVING VEHICLE WHILE LEAVING HIS HOME, LOCATED IN THE LUXURIOUS SAN FRANCISCO NEIGHBORHOOD IN SOUTHWEST SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>DOCTORS TOLD ACAN-EFE THAT GEN. VILLAMARIONA'S SON-IN-LAW IS "IN SERIOUS CONDITION" AT A PRIVATE HOSPITAL, WHERE HE WAS ADMITTED AT 1030 (1630 GMT), BUT THEY DID NOT SPECIFY WHERE THE BULLET WOUNDS WERE OR THE NUMBER OF BULLETS THAT HIT HIM.</p><p>MILITARY SPOKESMEN SAID THAT SORTO MILLA HAD BULLET WOUNDS IN SEVERAL PARTS OF THE BODY, BUT THEY REFUSED TO PROVIDE MORE DETAILS AS LONG AS THE POLICE ARE CONDUCTING INVESTIGATIONS TO CAPTURE THE ASSAILANTS.</p><p>GEN. VILLAMARIONA, CONSIDERED TO BE ONE OF THE HARD-LINE MILITARY CHIEFS OF THE ARMED FORCES, WAS APPOINTED TO HIS PRESENT POST IN JANUARY OF THIS YEAR REPLACING GENERAL RAFAEL BUSTILLO, WHO WAS APPOINTED MILITARY ATTACHE IN ISRAEL.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN AIR FORCE (FAS) PLAYED A KEY ROLE DURING THE LAST GUERRILLA MILITARY OFFENSIVE IN NOVEMBER 1989, AND IT WAS ACCUSED BY OPPOSITION GROUPS, HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS, AND THE CATHOLIC CHURCH OF INDISCRIMINATELY BOMBING POOR NEIGHBORHOODS OF THE CAPITAL TO DISLODGE REPORTED GUERRILLA REDOUBTS.</p><p>THE ATTACK ON SORTO MILLA TOOK PLACE A WEEK AFTER THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) SUSPENDED ITS ATTACKS ON CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE CREATION OF CONDITIONS FOR THE RESUMPTION OF THE DIALOGUE WITH PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT.</p><p>OFFICIAL SOURCES HAVE NOT DISCLOSED WHO THEY BELIEVE CARRIED OUT THE ATTACK OR PROVIDED ANY BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON SORTO MILLA.</p></body></html>