<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0003"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0003"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0003</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0003 (NOSC)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 5 JAN 90 -- [EXCERPTS] THE GOVERNMENT JUNTA YESTERDAY APPROVED A DRAFT BILL TO "MODIFY LAW 18314, WHICH DEFINES TERRORIST ACTIVITIES AND ESTABLISHES PENALTIES." THE BILL WILL RESTRICT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW TO THE MOST SERIOUS CASES AND WILL LEAVE OTHER CRIMES, THAT WERE FORMERLY CONSIDERED TERRORIST ACTIVITY, FOR TRIAL UNDER COMMON LAW.</p><p>THE NEW BILL ACCEPTS THE POSSIBILITY IN SOME CASES OF A PRISONER BEING RELEASED ON BAIL OR RECEIVING A PARDON OR AMNESTY. THE BILL ALSO ESTABLISHES OTHER BENEFITS NOT CONTEMPLATED BY LAW 18314, INCLUDING A NEW PROCEEDINGS FOR SPEEDIER TRIALS. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>ACCORDING TO RETIRED GENERAL FERNANDO TORRES SILVA, WHO IS THE ARMY JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL, THE MODIFICATIONS ESTABLISH LIGHTER SENTENCES, FREEDOM ON BAIL, AND POSSIBLE PARDONS OR AMNESTIES. THESE BENEFITS WERE NOT CONTEMPLATED UNDER THE FORMER ANTITERRORIST LAW.</p><p>AS AN EXAMPLE TORRES CITED THAT "SENTENCES OF INDIVIDUALS TRIED AS ACCOMPLICES WILL BE LOWER. THEY WILL RECEIVE LOWER SENTENCES THAN THAT PREVIOUSLY CONTEMPLATED."</p><p>THE NEW BILL WILL ALSO ALLOW A GREAT NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO ARE BEING TRIED BY THE INTERIOR MINISTRY TO GO OUT ON BAIL.</p><p>ACCORDING THE GENERAL ATTORNEY'S OFFICE, MORE THAN 1,000 PRISONERS MIGHT BENEFIT FROM THE MODIFICATIONS.</p></body></html>