<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0339"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0339"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0339</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0339 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 7 AUG 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO] [EXCERPTS] [PASSAGE OMITTED] SIMON BOLIVAR AND FRANCISCO DE PAULA SANTANDER GAVE OUR ARMED FORCES THE MISSION OF DEFENDING FREEDOM, INDEPENDENCE, AND DEMOCRACY. THROUGHOUT HISTORY, THE NATIONAL ARMY HAS COMPLIED WITH THAT MANDATE. IT HAS NOT BEEN AN EASY TASK, EVEN LESS SO DURING THE TIMES WE ARE LIVING. VERY FEW NATIONS HAVE HAD TO CONFRONT SIMULTANEOUSLY SO MANY DIFFICULT CHALLENGES. CONFRONTED BY A COMBINATION OF SOURCES OF DISRUPTION, THE ARMED FORCES HAVE NOT LOST THEIR DETERMIANTION AND OPTIMISM, NOR HAVE THEY STOPPED FOR 1 MINUTE TO STRUGGLE FOR THE REESTABLISHMENT OF TRANQUILLITY FOR THE CITIZENS, AND FOR THE PROTECTION OF LIFE, HONOR, AND PROPERTY OF COLOMBIANS.</p><p>AS THE VIOLENCE INCREASES, OUR COMMITMENT TO DEMOCRACY AND COLOMBIA IS STRENGTHENED. THE PRICE OF COURAGE AND FIRMNESS HAS BEEN HIGH. MANY SOLDIERS, OFFICERS, AND NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICERS HAVE BEEN KILLED, BUT THEY ARE THE HEROES OF DEMOCRACY. ON THE OCCASION OF ARMY DAY, I SPEAK ON BEHALF OF THE VAST NATIONAL MAJORITY AND CONVEY TO THEIR FAMILIES, FRIENDS, AND FELLOW SOLDIERS OUR MESSAGE OF ENCOURAGEMENT, APPRECIATION, AND HOPE. THEIR EFFORTS HAVE NOT BEEN IN VAIN.</p><p>THE BATTLE TO PRESERVE DEMOCRACY AND DEFEAT VIOLENCE CONTINUES. THE DETERMINATION OF COLOMBIANS DOES NOT WEAKEN. OUR ENEMIES ARE ALONE, AS NEVER BEFORE, AND THIS WE OWE TO PERMANENT ACTIONS BY OUR ARMED FORCES.</p><p>IN THE ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN, I OFFERED THE COLOMBIANS A POLICY OF RECONCILIATION BASED ON DEFINED GUIDELINES AND CLEAR PRINCIPLES. THIS WAS THE DEMOCRATIC MANDATE THAT WE RECEIVED FROM THE PEOPLE. NOW, WHEN WE ARE HARVESTING THE RESULTS OF THAT STRATEGY, WE WILL NOT GIVE UP. THE PEACE INITIATIVE HAS SHOWED THAT IT CAN OPERATE AND IT WILL CONTINUE TO BE THE FRAMEWORK WITHIN WHICH WE WILL CONDUCT POLITICAL ACTION FOR NATIONAL RECONCILIATION.</p><p>SOME BELIEVE THAT TO PRESERVE DEMOCRACY, IT IS NECESSARY TO LEAVE IT IDLE, AT THE MERCY OF VIOLENCE. OTHERS ARGUE THAT PEACE CAN ONLY BE ACHIEVED IF WE DISMANTLE OUR CAPABILITY TO DEFEND DEMOCRACY. WE DO NOT AGREE. THE GOVERNMENT HAS CONFIRMED THAT STRENGTHENING DEMOCRACY AND THE QUEST FOR PEACE ARE NOT ONLY COMPATIBLE WITH IMPROVING AND STRENGTHENING THE ARMED FORCES, BUT THAT THIS IS INDISPENSABLE FOR ADVANCING THE POLITICAL HANDLING OF VIOLENCE.</p><p>EFFICIENT, PROFESSIONAL ARMED FORCES THAT SERVE THE COUNTRY ARE A DEFINITE GUARANTEE OF THE RIGHTS OF CITIZENS AND OF PEACEFUL COEXISTENCE. THAT IS WHY THIS GOVERNMENT HAS MADE A GREAT ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL EFFORT TO RETURN TO THE MILITARY INSTITUTIONS COMPLETE FREEDOM OF ACTION.</p><p>THIS COMMEMORATION OF THE 170TH ANNIVERSARY OF OUR INDEPENDENCE IS A SUITABLE TIME TO PONDER OUR DUTY TO THE HOMELAND. I AM NOT REFERRING TO DAILY CIVIC DUTIES, WHICH ARE PROPER TO ALL OF US COLOMBIANS, BUT TO SOMETHING MUCH DEEPER -- LOYALTY TO DEMOCRACY AND OUR INSTITUTIONS. DEMOCRACY'S BOUNDARIES ARE BROAD, BUT PRECISE. WHEN VIOLENCE TO A CERTAIN EXTENT IS TOLERATED, MORE VIOLENCE IS CREATED, THERE IS A CONSPIRACY AGAINST PEACE, AND CONFLICTS ARE AGGRAVATED. THE ENTIRE SOCIETY HAS SUFFERED BECAUSE OF THE ACTIVITIES OF THE ENEMIES OF COLOMBIA. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>I CONGRATULATE THE OFFICERS, CIVILIAN PERSONALITIES, SERGEANT AMAYA ALVAREZ, AND PRIVATE MALAMBO TIQUE, WHOSE MERITS WERE ACKNOWLEDGED TODAY IN THE NAME OF THEIR FELLOW COUNTRYMEN AND THE GOVERNMENT. [APPLAUSE] THIS CEREMONY, IN WHICH WE HONOR THE HEROES OF INDEPENDENCE AND THE ARMY, IS A SUITABLE OCCASION TO MAKE KNOWN TO OFFICERS, NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICERS, AND SOLDIERS ALIKE THE NATION'S RECOGNITION OF THEIR COURAGEOUS AND PROFESSIONAL FULFILLMENT OF THEIR DUTIES. WHEN THE ARMED FORCES ACADEMIES PARADE BEFORE US, SO WILL THE YOUNG MEN AND WOMEN WHO HAVE DEVOTED THEIR LIVES TO SERVING THE HOMELAND AND THEIR FELLOW COUNTRYMEN. EVERY HONEST COLOMBIAN SUPPORTS THEM.</p><p>SOLDIERS: YOU, WHO WIELD THE NATION'S ARMS, REPRESENT THE BASIC GUARANTEE THAT PRESERVES SOVEREIGNTY, LIBERTY, AND OUR DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS. THANK YOU. [APPLAUSE]</p></body></html>