<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0897"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0897"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0897</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0897 (GTE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 29 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION, ATTENTION. WE HAVE LAST MINUTE INFORMATION.</p><p>ATTENTION. FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] FORCES HAVE BROKEN THE SIEGE THAT THE FASCIST TROOPS WERE MAINTAINING AROUND NORTHWESTERN AND NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>ATTENTION. WE HAVE BEEN FIGHTING IN AREAS CLOSE TO THE ARMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF HEADQUARTERS. WE REPEAT. WE ARE FIGHTING IN AREAS CLOSE TO THE ARMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF HEADQUARTERS. WE ARE FIGHTING IN LA SULTANA NEIGHBORHOOD, ON THE SOUTHERN HIGHWAY AND AROUND THE DEMOCRACIA BUILDING.</p><p>OUR UNITS ENTERED THE MANUEL JOSE ARCE NEIGHBORHOOD INHABITED BY HIGH-RANKING MILITARY CHIEFS AND OCCUPIED SEVERAL HOUSES THERE. OUR FORCES FOUND ARSENALS IN SOME OF THE HOUSES AND CLASHED AGAINST ENEMY TROOPS.</p><p>OUR FORCES SEIZED MANY WEAPONS INCLUDING RIFLES, MACHINEGUNS, AMMUNITION, AND OTHER WAR MATERIAL. ALL THOSE WEAPONS WERE FOUND IN THE HOUSES OF SEVERAL HIGH-RANKING MILITARY CHIEFS IN THE MANUEL JOSE ARCE NEIGHBORHOOD.</p><p>WE ALSO HAVE REPORTS ON CLASHES IN THE AREA OF ANTIGUO CUSCATLAN WHERE MILITARY DETACHMENT NO 6 REINFORCEMENTS REFUSED TO ADVANCE. THE SONSONATE TROOPS REFUSED TO ADVANCE TOWARD OUR POSITIONS IN THE AREA OF ANTIGUO CUSCATLAN.</p><p>SIMILARLY, OUR FORCES ARE HOLDING POSITIONS IN SOYAPANGO, MEJICANOS, CUSCATANCINGO, AND AYUTUXTEPEQUE. OUR FORCES ALSO HAVE CONTROL OF THE NORTHERN TRUNK HIGHWAY AND OTHER IMPORTANT ROUTES LEADING TO SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>THERE ARE CLASHES AGAINST BRACAMONTE BATTALION TROOPS IN LA SULTANA NEIGHBORHOOD, SAN FRANCISCO, AND ANTIGUO CUSCATLAN. THE ENEMY HAS REACTED IN FOUR DIFFERENT WAYS. THE ENEMY SENT BRACAMONTE BATTALION REINFORCEMENTS IN ONE DIRECTION, BUT THEIR ADVANCE WAS NEUTRALIZED AND HALTED AT THE ESCALON NEIGHBORHOOD. WE REPEAT. THE FIRST HIGH COMMAND RESPONSE TO OUR INCURSION INTO NORTHWESTERN AND WESTERN SAN SALVADOR RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS INCLUDING BRACAMONTE BATTALION REINFORCEMENTS HAS BEEN NEUTRALIZED. OUR FORCES AMBUSHED AND NEUTRALIZED THOSE BRACAMONTE BATTALION REINFORCEMENTS.</p><p>A SECOND ENEMY RESPONSE TO OUR INCURSION INTO AND CONTROL OF NORTHWESTERN AND WESTERN SAN SALVADOR MOVED ALONG THE SOUTHERN HIGHWAY AND WAS AMBUSHED WITH RPG-7 ROCKET LAUNCHERS AND THEREFORE NEUTRALIZED. THE ENEMY'S THIRD RESPONSE MOVING THROUGH SANTA TECLA WAS ALSO ATTACKED BY OUR FORCES AND HAS BEEN NEUTRALIZED WITH AN AMBUSH NEAR LA UNIVERSAL AND GUADALUPE GARDENS. THESE ATLACATL BATTALION FORCES WERE ALSO NEUTRALIZED.</p><p>WE ARE RECEIVING THIS REPORT FROM SAN SALVADOR. THE HIGH COMMAND'S FIRST AND BELATED RESPONSE INCLUDED FOUR MOVEMENTS, WHICH WERE ALL HALTED BY OUR FORCES. THOSE FOUR HIGH COMMAND DEFENSIVE MOVEMENTS HAVE BEEN ATTACKED AND NEUTRALIZED. BOTH THE BRACAMONTE AND THE ATLACATL BATTALIONS HAVE BEEN NEUTRALIZED. MEANWHILE THE TROOPS COMING FROM SONSONATE REFUSED TO ADVANCE IN SOUTHWESTERN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>CLASHES NOW COVER A LARGE AREA FROM THE HIGHWAY LINKING SANTA TECLA AND SAN SALVADOR AND THROUGH LA MASCOTA, LAS PALMAS, SAN BENITO, MAQUILIGUE, CAMPESTRE, LOMAS VERDES, ESCALON NEIGHBORHOODS, CONTINUING TO THE SAN SALVADOR VOLCANO AND MOVING THROUGH THE ENTIRE NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR INCLUDING AYUTUXTEPEQUE, CUSCATANCINGO, NORTHERN MEJICANOS, AND MEJICANOS ITSELF AND THEN MOVING TO CIUDAD DELGADO, SOYAPANGO, AND THE SOUTHERN SECTION OF THE PAN-AMERICAN HIGHWAY, WHERE OUR UNITS MAINTAIN POSITIONS AND ARE ADVANCING TOWARD ENEMY FORCES. IN OTHER WORDS, AT THIS HOUR THE FMLN HAS FORMED THE LARGEST ARCH OF ATTACKS DURING OUR FORCES' ENTIRE OCCUPATION OF SAN SALVADOR.</p></body></html>