<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1237"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1237"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1237</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1237 (BOEING)</p><p>BOGOTA, 26 APR 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] GOVERNMENT MINISTER HORACIO SERPA URIBE, WHO HAS JUST LEFT THE NATIONAL SOCIAL WELFARE INSTITUTE, HAS DENOUNCED CARLOS PIZARRO LEONGOMEZ' ASSASSINATION. HE ADDED THAT NO THOUGHT HAS BEEN GIVEN TO SUSPENDING THE ELECTIONS IN THE WAKE OF THIS DEVELOPMENT, AND ADDED THAT THE COUNTRY MUST NOT BE LEFT IN VIOLENT HANDS.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT MINISTER COMMENTED FURTHER ON THE TOP M-19 [19 APRIL MOVEMENT] LEADER'S ASSASSINATION:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [SERPA] THE OCCURRENCE OF SUCH SAD AND CRIMINAL DEVELOPMENTS IS TRULY A DISGRACE. IT HAS SADDENED EVERYBODY VERY MUCH. I FEEL THAT THIS WAS NOT ONLY AN ATTACK AGAINST FORMER CANDIDATE PIZARRO BUT AN ATTACK AGAINST THE COUNTRY, DEMOCRACY, AND THE ELECTORAL PROCESS. I FEEL THAT WE MUST RESPOND TO AGGRESSIVENESS AND CRIME WITH FEELINGS OF CONCILIATION AND PEACE.</p><p>[REPORTER] HAS ANY THOUGHT BEEN GIVEN TO SUSPENDING THE ELECTIONS AFTER THIS ASSASSINATION, BEARING IN MIND THAT PIZARRO WAS ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT CANDIDATES?</p><p>[SEPRPA] HE WAS UNDOUBTEDLY ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT CANDIDATES. THE GOVERNMENT ALWAYS THOUGHT SO. IN ADDITION, THE GOVERNMENT HIGHLY REGARDS THE PEACEMKING PROCESS IT HAS BEEN CARRYING OUT WITH THE M-19, IN WHICH PIZARRO WAS UNDOUBTEDLY A KEY PLAYER. WE HAVE ADOPTED SOME DECISIONS IN THIS REGARD. I AM GOING TO MEET WITH THE HEAD OF STATE AND ALL OF US WILL BE CLOSELY WATCHING THE SAD DEVELOPMENTS WHICH COLOMBIA IS EXPERIENCING WITH A DESIRE TO MEET THE NEED FOR TRANQUILLITY AND COEXISTENCE WHICH, UNFORTUNATELY, WE HAVE NOT HAD THUS FAR.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR. MINISTER, WHAT DOES THE FACT THAT TWO PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES HAVE BEEN ASSASSINATED IN LESS THAN 40 DAYS REPRESENT TO THE GOVERNMENT? HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT LOOK BEFORE THE NATION AND THE WORLD?</p><p>[SERPA] WELL, I REPEAT, THIS IS A VERY SAD CIRCUMSTANCE. THIS IS EXTREMELY WORRISOME, OF COURSE. LIKE ALL COLOMBIANS, WE ARE TROUBLED OVER THE FACT THAT WE ARE CONSTANTLY BEING FLOODED WITH CRIME AND BLOODSHED. THE GOVERNMENT IS DOING THE IMPOSSIBLE TO PROTECT ALL CITIZENS AND TO GUARANTEE THE ELECTIONS AND THE NORMAL DEVELOPMENT OF COLOMBIANS' LIVES. HOWEVER, THERE ARE DELUDED MINDS AND THERE ARE CRIMINALS WHO ARE INTERESTED IN DAMAGING THE COUNTRY. THIS IS AN ATTACK AGAINST COLOMBIA, AGAINST THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR. MINISTER, HAVE YOU AT ANY TIME THOUGHT OF ADOPTING SPECIAL MEASURES? WHAT IS THE STATUS OF THE PUBLIC ORDER SITUATION IN COLOMBIA AT THIS TIME? WHAT REPORTS DO YOU HAVE?</p><p>[SERPA] NO, THERE IS CALM IN GENERAL. THE GOVERNMENT IS VERY WORRIED, OF COURSE. WE ARE GOING TO MEET NOW TO DISCUSS THIS TERRIBLE CASE.</p><p>[REPORTER] HOWEVER, DO YOU NOT THINK THAT IT IS VERY DIFFICULT TO GO ON CAMPAIGNING IN PUBLIC AT THIS MOMENT?</p><p>[SERPA] I WOULD NOT DARE MAKE ANY ASSERTION IN THIS REGARD. WHAT I FEEL IS THAT WE MUST NOT YIELD A SINGLE CENTIMETER TO THE VIOLENT PEOPLE AND THE CRIMINALS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>SERPA MADE THESE STATEMENTS A FEW MINUTES AGO AS HE LEFT THE NATIONAL SOCIAL WELFARE INSTITUTE, WHERE AN AUTOPSY IS BEING PERFORMED AT THIS MOMENT ON PIZARRO'S BODY.</p></body></html>