<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0983"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0983"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAVANA (CUBA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0983</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0983 (SRI)</p><p>HAVANA (CUBA), 13 DEC 89 (INTERNATIONAL SERVICE) -- [INTERVIEW WITH SALVADORAN RICARDO MONTENEGRO, MEMBER OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, FMLN "RADIO VENCEREMOS INTERNATIONAL SERVICE," BY JORGE LUIS BERNARD] [TEXT] [BERNARD] MONTENEGRO, WE WOULD LIKE TO KNOW IF THE THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] WILL CONTINUE WITH THE CURRENT MILITARY OFFENSIVE THAT BEGAN ON 11 NOVEMBER SINCE THE AGREEMENT AMONG THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS WAS SIGNED?</p><p>[MONTENEGRO] THE TRUTH IS THAT THE REASONS WHY THE FMLN BEGAN ITS OFFENSIVE ON 11 NOVEMBER 1989 HAVE NOT CHANGED AT ALL. THUS, THE FMLN CANNOT STOP ITS OFFENSIVE. ON THE CONTRARY, WHAT HAPPENED IN EL SALVADOR IS THAT THE FMLN OFFENSIVE STRATEGICALLY TURNED THE WAR. THAT TURN INCLUDED A NUMBER OF MILITARY, POLITICAL, AND DIPLOMATIC IMPLICATIONS.</p><p>THUS, THE TRUTH IS THAT THE AGREEMENT SIGNED IN SAN ISIDRO DE CORONADO DID NOT PROPOSE REALISTIC NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE CONFLICT. YESTERDAY, 12 DECEMBER, THE FMLN ISSUED A COMMUNIQUE WHICH VEHEMENTLY EXPRESSED ITS ABSOLUTE REJECTION OF THE AGREEMENT SIGNED AT THE PRESIDENTIAL SUMMIT. AT PRESENT, THE FMLN BELIEVES THAT DESPITE WHAT THE OTHER FOUR CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS SAY, IT IS CLEARER THAN EVER THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT IS A FASCIST, MILITARY DICTATORSHIP. THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT VIOLATES PEOPLE'S HUMAN RIGHTS AND THAT FACT HAS BEEN CLEARLY PROVED TO THE ENTIRE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY. THEREFORE, ANY ATTEMPT TO HELP THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT OR ANY KIND OF SUPPORT GIVEN TO IT NOTHING BUT A PIECE OF PAPER THAT DOES NOT HAVE TOO MUCH VALIDITY TO THE FMLN.</p><p>[BERNARD] IN OTHER WORDS COMRADE, THE FMLN WILL MAINTAIN THE SAME LEVEL OF CONFRONTATION WITH THE DICTATORSHIP?</p><p>[MONTENEGRO] I BELIEVE THE FMLN'S ARMED STRUGGLE IS NOW MORE LEGITIMATE THAN EVER. THE SUMMIT CONFIRMED THE LEGITIMACY OF THE FMLN'S STRUGGLE, BECAUSE THE AGREEMENT RESULTING FROM THAT SUMMIT IS NEITHER FEASIBLE NOR REAL. THE FMLN WILL THEREFORE CONTINUE ITS POLITICAL - MILITARY OFFENSIVE. THE FMLN WILL INCREASE ITS ACTIONS. THE FMLN IS REORGANIZING [READECUAR] ITS POLITICAL - MILITARY APPARATUS. IN THE NEXT FEW DAYS, WE WILL CLEARLY SHOW WHAT THE FMLN CAN DO. THE FMLN WILL NOT SURRENDER ITS WEAPONS, ESPECIALLY NOW. THE FMLN HAS NO OBLIGATION TO ABIDE BY AN AGREEMENT THAT DOES NOT REFLECT THE SALVADORAN REALITY AT ALL.</p><p>IF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS CHOSE TO CLOSE THEIR EYES TO WHAT IS GOING ON THAT IS REALLY THEIR PROBLEM.</p><p>[BERNARD] TWO DAYS AFTER THE END OF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN SUMMIT, WHAT IS THE CURRENT MILITARY SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR?</p><p>[MONTENEGRO] AS I TOLD YOU EARLIER IN ANSWERING THE FIRST QUESTION, THE FIRST THING IS THAT THE FMLN DEFINATELY CHANGED THE WAR. THIS MEANS THAT THE FMLN MADE THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES RETREAT FROM THE MOUNTAINS TO THE HEART OF THE CITIES INCLUDING THE CAPITAL CITY OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>AT PRESENT, WE HAVE ALMOST ABSOLUTE CONTROL OVER THE HIGHWAYS IN 14, I MEAN 12 SALVADORAN DEPARTMENTS. THERE HAVE BEEN ACTIONS IN AHUACHAPAN AND SONSONATE, TWO DEPARTMENTS THAT HAD BEEN ALMOST UNTOUCHED BY THE WAR.</p><p>THERE IS A STRATEGIC SIEGE IN SAN SALVADOR. THE ARMY HAS 65 PERCENT OF ITS FORCES STATIONED IN SAN SALVADOR. THE ARMY HAS ABANDONED LARGE AREAS.</p><p>AS FOR SABOTAGE OPERATIONS, AT PRESENT THERE ARE 10 110,000-VOLT PRIMARY LINES THAT ARE OUT OF SERVICE. THAT REPRESENTS A 40-PERCENT ENERGY DEFICIT IN THE COUNTRY. THERE HAVE BEEN LONG PERIODS OF 100-PERCENT POWER OUTAGES IN SAN SALVADOR. IT IS VERY UNLIKELY THAT THE GOVERNMENT CAN CONTROL THAT SITUATION. WE DO NOT KNOW HOW LONG THEY WILL ENDURE IT. BUT IN ANY CASE, A STRONG BLOW BY THE FMLN FORCES IS EXPECTED TO OCCUR SOMEWHERE IN EL SALVADOR AT ANY TIME. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>