<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1246"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1246"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1246</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1246 (BOEING)</p><p>BOGOTA, 27 APR 90 [INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [SPEECH] [COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] WHEN THE CONVERGENCE OF OPINIONS ON THE FUNDAMENTAL ASPECTS OF THE CREATION OF A CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY IS MADE PUBLIC, THE GOVERNMENT WILL CONTRIBUTE TOWARD THE COUNTING OF THE RELEVANT BALLOT PAPERS.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT BELIEVES IT IS NECESSARY TO REDUCE AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE THE RISK FOR EACH OF THE CANDIDATES. DESPITE THE STRICT SECURITY MEASURES TAKEN BY CARLOS PIZARRO, THE SUICIDAL CALLING OF A HIRED ASSASSIN AT THE SERVICE OF EVIL INTERESTS ENDED HIS LIFE.</p><p>IN VIEW OF THESE TOTALLY IRRATIONAL METHODS, LARGE NUMBERS OF BODYGUARDS, BULLETPROOF VESTS, AND PRACTICAL SECURITY MEASURES COULD HELP, BUT THEY ARE NOT ENOUGH.</p><p>IT IS NECESSARY FOR AUTHORITIES AND CAMPAIGN OFFICIALS TO TAKE MAXIMUM PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES. THERE MUST BE MORE MODERN AND DIRECT COMMUNICATION WITH THE PEOPLE.</p><p>I ADMIRE THE COURAGE OF THE CANDIDATES WHO HAVE GONE TO PUBLIC SQUARES, BUT WE ALL KNOW THAT THE HEALTH OF DEMOCRACY AND THE STABILITY OF INSTITUTIONS DEPENDS ON THE LIVES OF THE CANDIDATES.</p><p>SO THIS CAMPAIGN CAN TAKE PLACE UNDER THE BEST OF CONDITIONS WITHOUT THE NEED FOR CANDIDATES TO RUN THE RISKS INVOLVED IN TRADITIONAL FORMS OF PROSELYTISM, THE GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED TO INCREASE TELEVISION TIME FOR THE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES OF THE PARTIES AND MOVEMENTS THAT ARE REPRESENTED IN CONGRESS, ON BOTH NATIONAL AND REGIONAL CHANNELS.</p><p>IN ADDITION, THE GOVERNMENT WILL ALLOW THE FREE USE OF RADIO STATIONS FOR THE SAME PURPOSE AND WILL GIVE MORE OPPORTUNITIES FOR ADVERTISEMENTS. WE ARE TRYING FOR A MORE MODERN CAMPAIGN IN WHICH NEW TECHNIQUES CAN BE USED TO EXPLAIN THE PROGRAMS OF THE CANDIDATES SO THAT THEY CAN DIRECTLY MAKE CONTACT WITH CITIZENS AND THEIR FAMILIES IN THEIR OWN HOMES.</p><p>BESIDES, THE GOVERNMENT WILL INTENSIFY ITS CIVIC CAMPAIGN BY INVITING ALL CITIZENS TO VOTE IN THE NEXT ELECTIONS. THEIR VOTE FOR ANY OF THE CANDIDATES OR EVEN A BLANK VOTE IS AN EXPRESSION OF THE PEOPLE'S REJECTION OF VIOLENCE. IT IS A WAY OF RESOLVING CONFLICTS BY PEACEFUL AND DEMOCRATIC MEANS.</p><p>TO ACTIVELY PARTICIPATE IN THE NEXT ELECTIONS IS TO VOTE FOR PEACE, FOR DEMOCRACY AND TOLERANCE. AMID THE SITUATION IN WHICH THIS COUNTRY IS LIVING, VOTING IS AN OBLIGATION. NO CITIZEN WITH A RIGHT TO VOTE CAN AFFORD TO REMAIN AT HOME AND REMAIN INDIFFERENT. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>