<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0645"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0645"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0645</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0645 (GE)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 7 NOV 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] POLICE SOURCES REPORTED TODAY THAT JORGE CASTILLO GARCIA, NICARAGUAN CONSUL IN COSTA RICA, WHO CAME HERE TO PROMOTE THE DEMOBILIZATION OF THE CONTRAS, WAS SERIOUSLY INJURED. HE WAS SHOT ON THE EVENING OF 5 NOVEMBER AT A TEGUCIGALPA RESTAURANT.</p><p>ARNALDO AMADOR, SECURITY GUARD AT THE DOMOS RESTAURANT TOLD POLICE THAT CASTILLO, VISIBLY DRUNK, TRIED TO TAKE A MOTORCYCLE FROM IN FRONT OF THE RESTAURANT. AMADOR ORDERED CASTILLO TO SURRENDER, BELIEVING HE WAS A THIEF.</p><p>ACCORDING TO AMADOR THE NICARAGUAN CONSUL ATTACKED HIM, HITTING HIM ON THE HEAD. AMADOR SAYS HE THEN SHOT CASTILLO WITH HIS SUBMACHINEGUN, WOUNDING HIM IN THE LEFT SIDE OF THE CHEST, VERY NEAR THE HEART.</p><p>CASTILLO GARCIA WAS RUSHED TO THE HOSPITAL WHERE HE IS NOW "RECOVERING", WHILE AMADOR HAS BEEN ARRESTED BY THE POLICE.</p><p>A FEW MINUTES AFTER THE INCIDENT, WHICH OCCURRED AT 2200 ON 5 NOVEMBER, DONAL OLIVA, SECRETARY OF THE NICARAGUAN EMBASSY HERE, CAME TO THE RESTAURANT TO GET DETAILS OF THE INCIDENT.</p><p>OLIVA SAID THAT CASTILLO GARCIA HAD LEFT THE EMBASSY ABOUT 2 HOURS BEFORE. HE SAID THAT CASTILLO HAD ARRIVED IN HONDURAS LAST WEEK TO PROMOTE THE DEMOBILIZATION OF THE CONTRAS, ESTABLISHED ALONG THE NICARAGUAN BORDER.</p></body></html>