<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0247"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0247"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0247</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0247 (ADS)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 15 JUN 89 (RADIO SANDINO) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [NICARAGUAN FOREIGN MINISTER MIGUEL D'ESCOTO] [TEXT] MR MINISTER [HONDURAN FOREIGN MINISTER CARLOS LOPEZ CONTRERAS]: VARIOUS HONDURAN PRESS SOURCES HAVE REPORTED ON THE 13 JUNE MEETING BETWEEN THE U.S. VICE PRESIDENT AND LEADERS OF THE MERCENARY GROUPS, AMONG THEM ENRIQUE BERMUDEZ, WHO HAVE BEEN USING HONDURAN TERRITORY AS A BASE AND SANCTUARY FOR ITS CRIMINAL ACTIONS AGAINST NICARAGUA.</p><p>THESE MERCENARY GROUPS HAVE CONTINUED THEIR ATTACKS AGAINST NICARAGUA, ADDING NEW VICTIMS TO THE THOUSANDS OF CITIZENS WHO HAVE ALREADY SUFFERED THE EFFECTS OF U.S. AGGRESSION AND THE PARTICIPATION AND COMPLICITY OF YOUR GOVERNMENT WITH THAT ILLEGAL POLICY.</p><p>THE WELL-KNOWN U.S. POLICY OF MAINTAINING CONTRA FORCES IN HONDURAN TERRITORY AND ITS CONSTANT CRIMINAL ATTACKS AGAINST THE NICARAGUAN POPULATION -- WHICH HAVE LEFT 163 CIVILIAN VICTIMS SINCE THE COSTA DEL SOL SUMMIT ON 31 MAY -- CHARACTERIZES THE TALKS BETWEEN U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AND CONTRA LEADERS, AS WELL AS THE TRAGIC CONSEQUENCES IN THE LOSS OF HUMAN LIVES AND PROPERTY DAMAGE IN MY COUNTRY.</p><p>WHILE VICE PRESIDENT QUAYLE WAS MEETING WITH THE MERCENARIES, PASTORAL REPRESENTATIVES IN WASLALA AND LAS MINAS INFORMED THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE HUNDREDS OF PEASANTS WHO HAVE BEEN MURDERED, KIDNAPPED, AND TORTURED BY THE MERCENARY GROUPS THAT INFILTRATE NICARAGUA FROM HONDURAS.</p><p>AT THE SAME TIME, THE DEFENSE MINISTRY REPORTED ON THE CONTINUATION OF ATTACKS AGAINST AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES, AMONG THEM ONE IN SAN JOSE, TIJUANA, SOUTHEAST OF ASTURIAS, JINOTEGA DEPARTMENT, WHERE FOUR PEASANTS WERE KILLED ON 10 JUNE.</p><p>IN THE COSTA DEL SOL DECLARATION, THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS COMMITTED THEMSELVES TO CARRYING OUT THE DEMOBILIZATION, REPATRIATION, AND RELOCATION OF THE MERCENARY GROUPS CURRENTLY BASED IN YOUR COUNTRY. HOWEVER, YOUR GOVERNMENT HAS SUPPORTED -- AGAINST THE LEGITIMATE INTERESTS OF THE HONDURAN PEOPLE -- THE OPTION SET FORTH BY A U.S. BIPARTISAN AGREEMENT AIMED AT MAINTAINING THE CONTRAS IN HONDURAN TERRITORY.</p><p>INTERVIEWS WITH HONDURAN POLITICAL LEADERS, SUCH AS THE ONE PUBLISHED IN THE DAILY LA TRIBUNA IN ITS 13 JUNE EDITION, CLEARLY STATE THAT THE U.S. VICE PRESIDENT DID NOT GO TO HONDURAS TO SOLVE ITS ECONOMIC PROBLEMS, BUT TO OBTAIN A CONFIRMATION FROM THE GOVERNMENT THAT IT WILL NOT EXPEL THE CONTRAS FROM HONDURAN TERRITORY.</p><p>IN CONSENTING TO THE CONTINUED PRESENCE IN ITS TERRITORY OF MERCENARY FORCES -- WHICH WERE CREATED TO ATTACK MY COUNTRY -- THE HONDURAN GOVERNMENT IS NOT ONLY HELPING TO BRING MORE SUFFERING AND DESTRUCTION TO THE NICARAGUAN PEOPLE AND NATION, BUT IS ALSO CONTINUING THE HEAVY BURDEN ON THE HONDURAN PEOPLE, WHO HAVE ALSO BEEN THE VICTIMS OF CRIMINAL AND TERRORIST ACTIONS.</p><p>WITH THIS BEHAVIOR, THE HONDURAN GOVERNMENT ONCE AGAIN EVINCES ITS TOTAL NONCOMPLIANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL COMMITMENTS, WHICH ARE ALSO EXPRESSED IN THE ESQUIPULAS AGREEMENTS, TO NOT PERMIT THE USE OF ITS TERRITORY TO ATTACK OTHER STATES AND TO DISCONTINUE ITS SUPPORT FOR IRREGULAR FORCES.</p><p>THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT STRONGLY PROTESTS THE FACT THAT YOUR COUNTRY CONTINUES TO ALLOW THE USE OF ITS TERRITORY TO CONDUCT ILLEGAL POLICIES THAT GO AGAINST THE ESQUIPULAS AGREEMENTS AND THE PEACE EFFORTS AND THAT VIOLATE THE PRINCIPLES AND NORMS ESTABLISHED BY INTERNATIONAL LAW TO GUARANTEE THE PEACEFUL COEXISTENCE OF STATES.</p><p>YOUR GOVERNMENT SHOULD REFLECT ON THIS AND HEED THE CALLS MADE BY THE HONDURAN PEOPLE THEMSELVES, WHO DEMAND AN END TO THE COUNTRY'S INVOLVEMENT IN AN ILLEGAL AND ADVENTUROUS POLICY AND THAT THE AGREEMENTS SIGNED IN COSTA DEL SOL CALLING FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF A JOINT PLAN FOR THE DEMOBILIZATION, REPATRIATION, AND RELOCATION OF THE IRREGULAR FORCES BASED IN YOUR COUNTRY BE HONORED.</p><p>I TAKE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO REITERATE MY ESTEEM TO YOUR EXCELLENCY.</p><p>[SIGNED] MIGUEL D'ESCOTO BROCKMAN, FOREIGN MINISTER, REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA</p></body></html>