<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0466"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0466"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="VIENNA (AUSTRIA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0466</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0466 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>VIENNA (AUSTRIA), 12 SEP 89 (DER STANDARD) -- [TEXT] "NONE OF US WANTED THE WAR. NOW THAT WE STARTED IT, WE HAVE TO WIN IT." WITH THESE WORDS MARGARET J. ANSTEE, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF THE UN OFFICE IN VIENNA, OPENED THE SECOND INTERREGIONAL MEETING OF THE HEADS OF NATIONAL DRUG LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES (HONLEA) IN VIENNA ON MONDAY [11 SEPTEMBER].</p><p>THE CONFERENCE, WHICH IS SCHEDULED TO LAST UNTIL FRIDAY, FOCUSES ON INTERNATIONAL TRENDS AND STRATEGIES IN THE FIGHT AGAINST THE ILLEGAL NARCOTICS TRADE, AS WELL AS THE DRAWING UP OF A FIRST "POSITIVE BALANCE SHEET" SINCE THE VIENNA HONLEA MEETING OF 1986, AND THE 1987 INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONFERENCE. SPECIAL EMPHASIS WILL BE PUT ON THE RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN COLOMBIA AND ALL OTHER PARTS OF LATIN AMERICA.</p><p>"WITH ITS FIGHT AGAINST THE ILLEGAL NARCOTICS TRADE, COLOMBIA HAS ASSURED ITSELF A PLACE IN THE HISTORY OF THE WORLD WAR AGAINST DRUGS," ANSTEE SAID. THIS "BATTLE" IS NOT AN ISOLATED PROBLEM OF AN INDIVIDUAL STATE, BUT A CONCERN OF THE WHOLE WORLD, SHE SAID.</p><p>"EVEN THE MURDER OF A COLOMBIAN JUDGE, POLICE HEAD, OR POLITICIAN, WHO WAS TRYING HARD TO BRING DRUG DEALERS TO COURT, IS NOT MERELY AN ATTACK AGAINST HIS PERSON AND HIS FAMILY, NOT ONLY ONE AGAINST THE LAWS AND THE GOVERNMENT BUT ALSO AN ASSAULT AGAINST US ALL, THE UN OFFICIAL SAID.</p><p>SHE EMPHASIZED THAT IT IS NOW PARTICULARLY IMPORTANT TO ENSURE THAT THE ANTI-DRUG CONVENTION, WHICH WAS CONCLUDED IN 1988 AND, UP TO NOW, SIGNED BY 71 STATES, TRANSLATES INTO CONCRETE STEPS AS SOON AS POSSIBLE -- EVEN BEFORE THE PROTRACTED RATIFICATION PROCEDURE IS CONCLUDED.</p><p>JAVIER CUELLO TREJO, THE MEXICAN WHO WAS ELECTED CHAIRMAN OF THE CONFERENCE BY ACCLAMATION, SAID: "THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUGS IS NOT ONLY OF ENORMOUS IMPORTANCE FOR LAWS AND GOVERNMENTS BUT ALSO FOR THE SURVIVAL OF THE ENTIRE MANKIND. WITHOUT ANY EXCEPTION, WE AND OUR PEOPLES ARE VICTIMS OF THOSE PEOPLE WHO LIVE FROM SUPPRESSING OTHER PEOPLE."</p><p>THE SITUATION IN THE SPHERES OF THE NARCOTICS TRADE AND CONSUMPTION HAS DRAMATICALLY DETERIORATED EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD DURING THE PAST 3 YEARS, CHRISTOPH HARSDORF, HEAD OF THE FRG DELEGATION, NOTED AT THE PERIPHERY OF THE UN CONFERENCE.</p></body></html>