<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0430"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0430"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CARACAS (VENEZUELA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0430</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0430 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>CARACAS (VENEZUELA), 5 SEP 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE EXTENSIVE BORDER SHARED BY VENEZUELA AND COLOMBIA IS TODAY, MORE THAN EVER, THE CAUSE OF CONCERN FOR THE CARACAS GOVERNMENT. THE OFFENSIVE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING ORDERED BY PRESIDENT BARCO IS VIEWED BY LOCAL COMMENTATORS AS A DANGEROUS THREAT TO VENEZUELA DUE TO ITS PROXIMITY TO COLOMBIA, WITH WHOM VENEZUELA SHARES OVER 2,000 KM.</p><p>THE BORDER WITH COLOMBIA HAS ALWAYS BEEN A CAUSE OF CONCERN FOR VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENTS. ON SEVERAL OCASSIONS VENEZUELA HAD TO FACE RAIDS INTO ITS TERRITORY, AS WELL AS THE KIDNAPPING OF STOCKBREEDERS, SMUGGLING OF GOODS, AND DRUG TRAFFICKING BY COLOMBIAN GUERRILLAS AND CRIMINALS. THE WAR DECLARED BY THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT ON THE MEDELLIN CARTEL OPENS UP THE POSSIBILITY THAT MANY OF THE DRUG CHIEFTAINS, AND PERHAPS SOME DRUG KINGPINS, MAY SEEK REFUGE IN VENEZUELAN TERRITORY.</p><p>VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ WARNED THAT IF DRUG TRAFFICKERS ATTEMPT TO TRANSFER THEIR INDUSTRIES TO VENEZUELA THEY WILL HAVE TO "FACE VENEZUELAN JUSTICE, AND CERTAINLY EXTRADITION TRIALS." THE STATES OF ZULIA, TACHIRA, AND APURE --IN WESTERN VENEZUELA -- BORDER COLOMBIAN TERRITORY AND HAVE BEEN THE SCENE OF DRUG TRAFFICKING OPERATIONS MANY TIMES. IN THE PAST FEW DAYS VENEZUELAN SECURITY FORCES HAVE INCREASED VIGILANCE AT THE MAIN BORDER POSTS BECAUSE OF RUMORS THAT DRUG TRAFFICKERS HAVE BEGUN MOVING TO VENEZUELA.</p><p>GOVERNOR OF ZULIA STATE ISMAEL ORDAZ CONFIRMED TO NEWSMEN THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS INTENSIFIED CONTROL AND VIGILANCE MEASURES AT THE BORDER WITH COLOMBIA. HE NOTED THERE IS BROAD COOPERATION BETWEEN THE VENEZUELAN AND COLOMBIAN AUTHORITIES IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>DURING A RADIO PROGRAM ON MONDAY, 4 SEPTEMBER, JOURNALIST JOSE VICENTE RANGEL, FORMER MOVEMENT TOWARD SOCIALISM PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE, MAINTAINED THAT IT IS NOT AT THIS TIME THAT DRUG TRAFFICKERS ARE ATTEMPTING TO ENTER VENEZUELA BECAUSE THEY ENTERED A LONG TIME AGO. RANGEL MAINTAINED THAT VENEZUELA ANNUALLY SERVES AS A BRIDGE FOR DRUG TRAFFICKING WORTH SOME $20 BILLION. FURTHERMORE, HE SAID, THE EXPENSIVE VENEZUELAN ELECTORAL CAMPAIGNS HAVE ALSO RECEIVED RESOURCES OBTAINED FROM DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>THE FIGURES GIVEN BY RANGEL ARE EQUIVALENT TO 66 PERCENT OF THE VENEZUELAN FOREIGN DEBT, WHICH AMOUNTS TO SOME $30 MILLION THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS CURRENTLY TRYING TO RENEGOTIATE. MOREOVER, RANGEL SAID, DURING THE ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN THAT CONCLUDED WITH THE ELECTION OF CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ IN DECEMBER 1988, POLITICAL PARTIES INVESTED SOME 5 BILLION BOLIVARES (SOME $135 MILLION) IN PROPAGANDA. THIS FIGURE IS EXCESSIVE IF ONE TAKES INTO ACCOUNT THAT, AS ESTABLISHED BY THE LAW, THE STATE ONLY CONTRIBUTES 100 MILLION BOLIVARES ($2.7 MILLION) FOR THE ELECTORAL CAMPAIGNS HELD EVERY 5 YEARS.</p><p>RANGEL ADDED THAT THE POSSIBLE TRANSFER OF COLOMBIAN DRUG TRAFFICKING OPERATION CENTERS TO VENEZUELA IS VERY WORRYING IF ONE TAKES INTO ACCOUNT THAT VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS HAVE OPENLY ADMITTED THE LACK OF VIGILANCE AT THE BORDERS. HOWEVER, WHILE COLOMBIA IS ATTEMPTING, PERHAPS BELATEDLY, NOT TO YIELD TO THE ECONOMIC POWER AND VIOLENCE OF DRUGS, THERE SEEMS TO BE NO AWARENESS IN VENEZUELA ABOUT THE GRAVE DANGER POSED BY THE ALLEGED CHANGE OF ADDRESS WHICH, ACCORDING TO SOME REPORTS, IS BEING PLANNED BY COLOMBIAN DRUG TRAFFICKERS.</p></body></html>