<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0650"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0650"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0650</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0650 (GE)</p><p>LIMA, 7 NOV 89 (MOSCOW KRASNAYA ZVEZDA) -- [TEXT] SUBUNITS OF THE PERUVIAN GROUND FORCES AND POLICE, SUPPORTED BY ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIERS, HAVE CONDUCTED A MAJOR OPERATION TO ARREST GROUPS OF ARMED EXTREMISTS ON THE STUDENT CAMPUS OF THE SAN MARCOS STATE UNIVERSITY. THE OPERATION TOOK PLACE AFTER SEVERAL TERRORISTS BROKE INTO THE BUILDING OF THE NATIONAL INDUSTRIALISTS SOCIETY, WHERE THEY SET OFF THREE BOMBS CAUSING EXTENSIVE DAMAGE TO THE BUILDING. AFTER THE ATTACK THE EXTREMISTS FLED TO THE UNIVERSITY CAMPUS.</p><p>AS A RESULT OF THE OPERATION AROUND 100 STUDENTS WERE ARRESTED ON SUSPICION OF TERRORIST ACTIVITY. WEAPONS, AMMUNITION, AND SUBVERSIVE LITERATURE WERE CONFISCATED FROM SOME OF THEM.</p><p>POLITICAL TERRORISM HAS BECOME PART OF EVERYDAY LIFE IN PERU. RECENTLY A SERIES OF ARMED ATTACKS HAS BEEN CARRIED OUT IN VARIOUS PARTS OF THE COUNTRY BY THE EXTREMIST GROUPING SENDERO LUMINOSO, WHICH IS TRYING TO DISRUPT THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS PLANNED FOR 12 NOVEMBER. IN TIRAPATA VILLAGE (PUNO DEPARTMENT) A SENDERO LUMINOSO DETACHMENT SEIZED THE LOCAL MAYOR AND SHOT HIM IN THE CENTRAL SQUARE IN FRONT OF LOCAL RESIDENTS WHO HAD BEEN MADE TO GO THERE. IN THE TOWN OF SAN CLEMENTE TERRORISTS THREW BOMBS AT THE HOMES OF MAYORAL CANDIDATES FROM VARIOUS POLITICAL PARTIES. IN THE VILLAGE OF CORIS (ANCASH DEPARTMENT) SENDERO LUMINOSO FIGHTERS SET FIRE TO THE TELEPHONE EXCHANGE AND THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL AND ALSO TOOK AWAY THE INHABITANTS' VOTING CARDS -- THE MAIN IDENTIFICATION DOCUMENT IN AN ELECTION. THEY THREATENED TO DEAL WITH ANYONE WHO TAKES PART IN THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.</p><p>AS A RESULT OF THE EXTREMISTS' THREATS AROUND 90 MAYORAL CANDIDATES HAVE WITHDRAWN THEIR NOMINATIONS, AS HAVE HUNDREDS OF CONTENDERS FOR MUNICIPAL COUNCIL SEATS.</p></body></html>