<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0909"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0909"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0909</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0909 (GTE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 30 NOV 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] IMMIGRATION DIRECTOR COLONEL MAXIMILIANO LEIVA REPORTED TODAY THAT 7 FOREIGNERS HAVE BEEN DEPORTED FROM EL SALVADOR AND 14 WILL HAVE TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY WITHIN THE NEXT FEW HOURS AFTER BEING DECLARED "PERSONA NON GRATA" FOR ALLEGEDLY COLLABORATING WITH THE GUERRILLAS.</p><p>LEIVA TOLD ACAN - EFE THAT AN UNDETERMINED NUMBER OF FOREIGNERS HAVE BEEN REMANDED TO THE COURTS, CHARGED WITH ARMS POSSESSION OR FOR TAKING PART IN ARMED ACTIONS IN COMPLICITY WITH THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN). LEIVA SAID THAT THE SEVEN DEPORTEES WILL BE "PERMANENTLY" BANNED SO THEY WILL NOT BE ABLE TO RETURN TO EL SALVADOR.</p><p>AMONG THE DEPORTED ARE U.S. CITIZENS, DUTCH, GERMANS, AND JAPANESE, ADDED LEIVA. THE SALVADORAN OFFICIAL DID NOT RELEASE THE NAMES OF THE DEPORTEES OR THE FOREIGNERS WHO WILL HAVE TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY IN THE NEXT FEW HOURS.</p><p>JENNIFER CASOLO, A U.S. CITIZEN, WAS ARRESTED BY THE SECURITY CORPS AND ACCUSED OF "ARMS POSSESSION." GRABRIELA TORNAGO, AN ITALIAN, WAS ARRESTED AND ACCUSED OF "FINANCING, RECRUITING, AND BEING INVOLVED WITH TERRORIST GROUPS."</p><p>ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL SOURCES, CASOLA WAS ARRESTED AT DAYBREAK ON 26 NOVEMBER AT A HOUSE LOCATED IN THE "MIRAVALLE" NEIGHBORHOOD, WHERE THE ARMY CLAIMS TO HAVE FOUND A GREAT AMOUNT OF WEAPONS. TORNAGO WAS ARRESTED MORE THAN A WEEK AGO IN THE "PRADOS DE VENECIA" NEIGHBORHOOD. POLICE SOURCES SAID THAT THE ITALIAN WAS PREPARING A FAKE WEDDING AT HER RESIDENCE TO GATHER PEOPLE LINKED WITH THE GUERRILLAS, WHO ON 11 NOVEMBER STARTED AN ALLEGED "INSURRECTION."</p><p>LEIVA ASSURED THAT THE FOREIGNERS WHO ARE LINKED TO THE GUERRILLAS WILL BE REMANDED TO THE COURTS BY THE SECURITY FORCE THAT MAKES THE ARREST.</p></body></html>