<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1281"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1281"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BRIDGETOWN (BARBADOS)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1281</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1281 (BOEING)</p><p>BRIDGETOWN (BARBADOS), 13 MAY 90 (CANA) -- [TEXT] ST. JOHN'S, ANTIGUA, MAY 13, CANA -- BRITISH LAWYER LOUIS BLOM COOPER WAS PREPARING TO HEAD BACK TO LONDON SUNDAY AFTER DISCUSSIONS HERE ON A JUDICIAL INQUIRY INTO A 1989 ARMS SHIPMENT THROUGH ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA. THE QUEEN'S COUNSEL [QC] ARRIVED HERE FOR TALKS WITH GOVERNOR GENERAL SIR WILFRED JACOBS AND ATTORNEY GENERAL FORDE ON THE ILLEGAL ARMS SHIPMENT THAT ENDED UP IN THE HANDS OF COLOMBIAN DRUG DEALERS. THE PROBE, SAID CANARADIO, WILL BEGIN IN TWO MONTHS.</p><p>IN IDENTIFYING THE BRITON TO HEAD THE INVESTIGATION, THE CABINET HERE DESCRIBED HIM AS A RESPECTED JURIST WITH EXPERIENCE IN CONDUCTING COMMISSIONS OF ENQUIRY. BLOM COOPER CONDUCTED A COMMISSION OF ENQUIRY INTO ARSON, CORRUPTION, AND OTHER RELATED MATTERS IN THE TURKS AND CAICOS ISLANDS IN 1986.</p><p>ISRAEL SAYS IT SOLD THE ARMS TO THE ANTIGUA GOVERNMENT, BUT ST. JOHN'S DENIES THIS. THE ISRAELIS HAVE IMPLICATED AN ANTIGUAN MINISTER, VERE BIRD JR. IN THE SCANDAL, BUT BIRD SAYS HE HAD NO LINKS WITH THE ARMS.</p><p>MEANWHILE, ISRAEL ON SUNDAY CALLED COLOMBIAN DIPLOMATIC SANCTIONS OVER THE SALES OF ISRAELI ARMS TO DRUG TRAFFICKERS UNJUSTIFIED AND SAID IT WAS WORKING TO END THE ROW. AFTER COLOMBIAN POLICE FOUND HUNDREDS OF ISRAELI-MADE GUNS ON THE FARM OF A DEAD DRUG BARON, BOGOTA SAID ON FRIDAY IT WAS REVOKING 1962 AND 1966 AGREEMENTS ALLOWING ISRAELIS TO VISIT WITHOUT VISAS.</p><p>"WE REGRET THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT DECISION, WHICH WE THINK IS NEITHER RIGHT NOR JUSTIFIED. WE WILL REMAIN IN CONTACT WITH THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT IN ORDER TO RESOLVE THE ISSUE," AN ISRAELI FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESMAN TOLD REUTERS.</p><p>BOGOTA HAS ALSO ACCUSED ISRAELI AND BRITISH MERCENARIES OF HELPING DRUG TRAFFICKERS TRAIN PRIVATE ARMIES BLAMED FOR KILLING CIVILIANS IN NORTHERN COLOMBIA.</p><p>ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA'S FINANCE MINISTER JOHN ST. LUCE HAS MET WITH AND APPRISED THE HEADS OF THE COUNTRY'S TEN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS OF GOVERNMENT'S PROGRESS IN SETTING UP THE JUDICIAL ENQUIRY, A STATEMENT FROM THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE SAID.</p><p>"I'M AWARE THAT ALL BANK MANAGERS NEED TO KEEP THEIR HEAD OFFICES AND, OR DIRECTORS ABREAST OF DEVELOPMENTS," ST. LUCE WAS QUOTED AS SAYING.</p><p>THE MINISTER ASKED THE BANKS TO "BE OBJECTIVE AND ALLOW THE JUDICIAL INQUIRY TO DETERMINE WHAT REALLY TRANSPIRED AND TO INFORM THE COUNTRY AS TO WHO ARE THE PERSONS INVOLVED." THE STATEMENT SAID THE BANK MANAGERS "EXPRESSED APPRECIATION FOR MR. ST. LUCE'S FRANKNESS AND THE OPPORTUNITY FOR DISCUSSION."</p></body></html>