<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0123"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0123"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0123</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0123 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 14 MAR 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] AGRICULTURE MINISTER JAIME DE LA SOTTA AND FOREIGN MINISTER HERNAN FELIPE ERRAZURIZ WILL LEAVE TONIGHT FOR THE UNITED STATES IN AN ATTEMPT TO ACHIEVE THE LIFTING OF THE BAN ON IMPORTED CHILEAN FRUITS. THEY WILL TAKE LAN-CHILE FLIGHT 141 THAT DEPARTS AT APPROXIMATELY 2100 FROM SANTIAGO AND GOES DIRECTLY TO NEW YORK.</p><p>IN NEW YORK, THE TWO MINISTERS WILL TAKE ANOTHER PLANE TO WASHINGTON AND WILL ARRIVE AT APPROXIMATELY NOON TOMORROW. IN THE U.S. CAPITAL THEY WILL MEET WITH OFFICIALS OF THE FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION.</p><p>THE MAIN OBJECTIVE OF THE TRIP IS TO ACHIEVE THE LIFTING OF THE BAN ON IMPORTED CHILEAN FRUITS. U.S. OFFICIALS ANNOUNCED THE BAN OVER AN UNUSUAL TELEVISION NETWORK FOLLOWING THE DISCOVERY THAT SOME CHILEAN GRAPES WERE LACED CYANIDE. DE LA SOTTA STATED THAT THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF THE DAMAGE THAT TERRORISM CAN CAUSE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [DE LA SOTTA] YOU CAN SEE AND MEASURE THE SCOPE OF A TERRORIST ACT SUCH AS THE ONE WE HAVE JUST EXPERIENCED, THE SOLE OBJECTIVE OF WHICH IS TO CAUSE HARM. THIS CAN BE DEMONSTRATED BY THE ADVERTISEMENT, NOT A CLEAR AND CONCRETE ADVERTISEMENT, BUT AN ANONYMOUS TELEPHONE CALL BY WHICH THEY WARNED US, THAT IS, THEY WARNED THE EMBASSIES THEY CALLED, THAT THEY WOULD CARRY OUT SUCH AN ACT. THIS CALL WAS MADE 3 DAYS AFTER THE DEPARTURE OF THE FRUIT SHIPMENT. WE ATTEMPTED TO CONTROL THE SITUATION TO THE EXTENT POSSIBLE, FOLLOWING TECHNICAL PROCEDURES CONCERNING THE AMOUNT OF SAMPLES TAKEN. THEN WE ANNOUNCED THAT THE SITUATION WAS UNDER CONTROL, THAT IT WAS AN ANOMYOUS CALL AND AS SUCH COULD NOT BE TAKEN SERIOUSLY. LATER, IN THE SHIPMENTS THAT ARRIVED IN THE UNITED STATES LAST WEEKEND, THE PRESENCE OF CYANIDE WAS DETECTED IN TWO GRAPES. [END RECORDING]</p><p>DE LA SOTTA ADDED THAT ALL POSSIBLE EFFORTS WILL BE MADE TO OVERCOME THE IMPASSE. THE MAJOR PROBLEM NOW INVOLVES THE 17 MILLION BOXES THAT ARRIVED AT THEIR PORTS OF DESTINATION READY FOR DISTRIBUTION. NOW NO ONE KNOWS WHAT TO DO WITH THEM. THERE ARE 7 OR 8 MILLION BOXES MORE BEING SHIPPED TO THE SAME PORTS, AND 3 MILLION BOXES REMAIN IN THE COUNTRY, READY TO BE SHIPPED. DE LA SOTTA SAID THAT THE CYANIDE WAS FOUND IN TWO SINGLE GRAPES.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [DE LA SOTTA] THE ESSENTIAL THING, I BELIEVE, IS [WORDS INDISTINCT] THAT THE UNITED STATES CAN ADOPT MEASURES. WE WILL TALK WITH THE HEALTH OFFICIALS TO GIVE THEM THE NECESSARY ASSURANCES SO THEY CAN LIFT THE BAN AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>IN ORDER TO FACE THE PROBLEM, THE GOVERNMENT HAS CREATED THREE COMISSIONS TO STUDY THE DIFFERENT ASPECTS OF THE PROBLEM, THE AGRICULTURE MINISTER STATED.</p></body></html>