<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0543"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0543"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0543</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0543 (UMASS)</p><p>SANTIAGO, NO DATE (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] GROUPS HOLDING THE SAME POLICIES THAT FAILED IN CHILE AT THE END OF THE 1960'S AND THE BEGINNING OF THE 1970'S WERE ABLE TO ESTABLISH THEMSELVES IN OTHER PLACES.</p><p>NOW WE ARE WITNESSING THE COLLAPSE OF THE ILLUSIONS AND OF THE POSSIBILITIES OF TOTALITARIAN AND COLLECTIVIST SYSTEMS. IT SEEMS THAT PEACE IS BEING CONSOLIDATED. THE WORLD POWERS HAVE AGREED TO WORK FOR A BETTER UNDERSTANDING AND MORE RATIONAL RELATIONS. THE WORLD IS BECOMING INCREASINGLY INTERDEPENDENT.</p><p>OUR MODERN KNOWLEDGE, SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND RESOURCES HAVE OVERCOME BORDERS AND LIMITATIONS. THE SAME IS TRUE OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY. THESE PROBLEMS, THEREFORE, ARE A CHALLENGE FOR WORLD COOPERATION AND THIS ORGANIZATION.</p><p>ONE OF THE GREATEST CHALLENGES FACING THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TODAY IS THE DRAFTING OF EFFECTIVE PROGRAMS TO FIGHT DRUG TRAFFICKING. WE SUPPORT COLOMBIA FOR ITS COURAGE TO FACE THE POWERFUL CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS THAT ARE USING THE NATION FOR THEIR OWN PURPOSES. CHILE HAS IMPLEMENTED A STRICT PREVENTIVE PROGRAM TO CONTROL THE MOST DANGEROUS MANIFESTATIONS OF THE PROBLEM. WE ARE NOT A DRUG PRODUCING COUNTRY. WE ARE VICTIMS OF DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>IN ONE OF ITS FIRST DECISIONS ON THE PROBLEM, IN SEPTEMBER 1973, THE GOVERNMENT EXPELLED A GROUP OF FOREIGN DRUG TRAFFICKERS WHO HAD ESTABLISHED THEMSELVES IN NORTHERN CHILE, TAKING ADVANTAGE OF THE PREVAILING POLITICAL AND SOCIAL CRISIS. WE ARE CONVINCED THAT COUNTRIES CANNOT FIGHT THE PROBLEM ALONE. THE WORLD HAS DECLARED WAR ON DRUGS. WE MUST BE AWARE THAT TRANSITORY VICTORIES WILL NOT ERADICATE THE PROBLEM. ONLY WITH PROPER EDUCATION WILL WE BE ABLE TO NURTURE THE STRENGTH OF OUR YOUTH, ALERT THEM TO THE DANGERS OF DRUG CONSUMPTION, AND PREVENT THEM FROM BECOMING VICTIMS.</p><p>THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY MUST ASSIGN THE NECESSARY RESOURCES TO IMPLEMENT EFFICIENT EDUCATION PROGRAMS.</p><p>WE HAVE EXPRESSED CONCERN ABOUT TERRORISM FOR MANY YEARS. TODAY WE WANT TO REITERATE OUR REJECTION AND REPUDIATION OF TERRORISM. CHILEANS ARE ESPECIALLY SENSITIVE TO TERRORISM BECAUSE WE CONTINUOUSLY EXPERIENCE THEIR COWARDLY AND IRRESPONSIBLE ATTACKS. WE HAVE OFTEN SEEN HOW SOME NATIONS RECEIVE CONFESSED TERRORISTS WHO ASK FOR POLITICAL ASYLUM.</p><p>IF MODERN SOCIETIES WANT TO DEFEAT TERRORISM AND NARCOTERRORISM, THEY WILL HAVE TO ACT DECISIVELY. TERRORISTS SHOULD NOT BE GIVEN REFUGE OR PROTECTION ANYWHERE.</p><p>SOME INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS HAVE PERMITTED THE SYSTEMATIC MANIPULATION OF THE ISSUE OF HUMAN RIGHTS FOR POLITICAL REASONS. THE PARTIES INVOLVED IN SUCH MANIPULATION HAVE TRIED TO INCLUDE THE LEGITIMATE RIGHT OF A NATION TO DEFEND ITSELF FROM TERRORISM AND SUBVERSION IN THE DEFINITION OF HUMAN RIGHT VIOLATIONS. IT IS NOT THAT WE DENY THE INALIENABLE RIGHTS OF PEOPLE. WE CONDEMN THE GROSS MANIPULATION OF THE ISSUE OF HUMAN RIGHTS. THIS MANIPULATION SHOWS THAT THOSE PARTIES DO NOT RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS THEMSELVES. HUMAN RIGHTS SHOULD BE RESPECTED BY ALL NATIONS WITHOUT EXCEPTION.</p><p>IT IS NOT FAIR TO PASS JUDGMENT ON COUNTRIES LIKE CHILE THAT HAD TO STRUGGLE HARD TO OVERCOME THE DIFFICULTIES CREATED BY TERRORISM AND SUBVERSION. TERRORISM SET FOOT IN CHILE AS A CONSEQUENCE OF DISRUPTION IN THE INSTITUTIONAL ORDER BETWEEN 1970 AND 1973. THOSE PASSING JUDGMENT MUST CONSIDER THE GENERAL SITUATION THAT PROVOKED THE COLLAPSE OF PEACEFUL COEXISTENCE.</p><p>IN CHILE WE HAVE BUILT A SOCIETY IN WHICH HUMAN RIGHTS ARE PROTECTED NOT ONLY BY DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS AND THE LAW, BUT ALSO BY THE CHILEAN PEOPLE'S WILLINGNESS TO RESPECT INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS, VALUES, AND BELIEFS. THOSE RIGHTS ARE ALSO PROTECTED BY TODAY'S SPIRIT OF COEXISTENCE.</p></body></html>