<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0726"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0726"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0726</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0726 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 13 NOV 89 -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [PONCE] AND WE NOT WANT TO DO THAT. WE WANT TO RESOLVE THIS SITUATION IN A CAUTIOUS WAY, ALWAYS RESPECTING AND PROTECTING OUR CIVILIAN POPULATION. THAT IS WHY WE ASK THOSE PERSONS WHO HAVE BEEN KIDNAPPED OR ARE BEING HELD HOSTAGE BY TERRORISTS TO BE PATIENT. THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES ARE MAKING AN EFFORT TO REACH ALL THE AREAS WHERE THIS SITUATION PREVAILS SO THAT WE CAN RESCUE ALL OF OUR SALVADORAN BROTHERS.</p><p>[REPORTER] THESE REMARKS ARE INTENDED TO REVEAL THE PROFESSIONAL NATURE OF THE ARMED FORCES AND REAFFIRM SOMETHING MANY SALVADORANS HAVE IN MIND. REGARDING THIS MILITARY OFFENSIVE, HAS THE FMLN RECEIVED MILITARY AND PERSONNEL AID FROM ABROAD?</p><p>[PONCE] SURE, NICARAGUA HAS ALWAYS SUPPORTED THE FMLN. PRESIDENT ORTEGA IS DOING THIS [3-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION]. THE NICARAGUAN FOREIGN MINISTER, WHO IS CURRENTLY IN MEXICO, IS GIVING HIS FULL SUPPORT TO THE FMLN. HE SAYS THAT THE REVOLUTIONARY FORCES HAVE ALREADY ACHIEVED THEIR VICTORY IN EL SALVADOR. THE FMLN ARE LIARS. THEY FOLLOW THE SAME COMMUNISTS' SLOGANS: LIE, LIE, AND LIE. HERE NO ONE BELIEVES THAT. A TRUCK LOADED WITH WEAPONS IN SANTA ANA WAS DRIVEN BY AN EAST GERMAN. SOME OF THE CAPTURED PEOPLE ARE FOREIGNERS. I CANNOT TELL YOU WHERE THEY COME FROM.</p><p>[REPORTER] YOUR REMARKS CONFIRM THE PRESENCE OF MERCENARIES IN THE CURRENT ARMED STRUGGLE, WHICH WOULD BE....</p><p>[PONCE, INTERRUPTING] I CAN ALSO ADD THAT WE RECEIVED INFORMATION BEFORE 10 NOVEMBER THAT A GROUP OF TERRORIST FIGHTERS HAD COME TO THE COUNTRY'S EASTERN ZONE FROM NICARAGUA. THEY MAY BE PARTICIPATING IN THIS TERRORIST ACTION.</p><p>[REPORTER] AS FOR THE TOTAL NUMBER OF CASUALTIES INFLICTED ON THE FMLN NOW, CAN YOU TELL HOW MANY FMLN REBELS HAVE DIED IN THIS OFFENSIVE?</p><p>[PONCE] NATIONWIDE, WE COUNTED 230 TERRORISTS KILLED, AND 136 TERRORIST WOUNDED; 72 TERRORIST WERE CAPTURED. ONE TERRORIST WAS PRESENTED TO THE PRESS.</p><p>[REPORTER] CAN THE NUMBER OF CIVILIANS KILLED AND WOUNDED BE TOTALLED NOW?</p><p>[PONCE] THAT IS THE MOST REGRETTABLE ASPECT OF THIS IRRATIONAL FMLN ACTION. THIS ACTION HAS IMPERILED THE PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT INVOLVED IN THE ARMED UPRISING. WE REGRET THAT 17 PEOPLE HAVE DIED AND 86 HAVE BEEN WOUNDED.</p><p>[REPORTER] THIS FIGURE IS REALLY REGRETTABLE. MANY PEOPLE HAVE BEEN TUNED INTO THIS NATIONAL NETWORK. WE HAVE HEARD MANY TELEPHONE CALLS REITERATING SUPPORT FOR THE CURRENT GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES' ACTIONS. IN CASE OF AN EMERGENCY IN AREAS WHERE THE CURFEW WAS ORDERED. WHAT SUGGESTIONS CAN YOU OFFER PEOPLE IN THE CAPITAL CITY?</p><p>[PONCE] TO REPORT AN EMERGENCY THEY CAN DIAL 3 IF THEY HAVE A TELEPHONE AVAILABLE. OTHERWISE, OR IF THEY DO NOT HAVE A TELEPHONE, IT IS IMPORTANT THAT THEY LEAVE THEIR HOMES WITH THEIR ARMS UP CARRYING SOME WHITE FLAG OR CLOTH AND GO TO A NEARBY UNIT TO GET AID. PEOPLE MUST KEEP IN MIND THE ARMED FORCES ARE THE FRIENDS OF THE PEOPLE AND WILL SERVE THE PEOPLE. TRUST AND GO TO YOUR ARMED FORCES.</p><p>[REPORTER] THESE WERE THE REMARKS OF COL RENE EMILIO PONCE. HE IS NOW LEAVING THIS NATIONAL RADIO NETWORK.</p><p>[PONCE] I CAN TELL YOU THAT A LARGE NUMBER OF WEAPONS HAVE BEEN SEIZED. WE CAN CONFIRM THE MEDDLING OF SOME COMMUNIST BLOC COUNTRIES IN THIS. WE SEIZED RUSSIAN AND NORTH KOREAN WEAPONS WHICH PROBABLY ENTERED THROUGH CUBA AND NICARAGUA. I CAN ALSO TELL YOU THAT SINCE THE FMLN FIRED MORTARS FROM THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY ON SATURDAY AND SUNDAY MORNING, WE HAD TO REMOVE THE TERRORISTS FROM SEVERAL POINTS. WE FOUND WEAPONS, EXPLOSIVES, AND A LARGE AMOUNT OF MEDICINE INSIDE THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY. SOME MEN WERE KILLED WITH THEIR RIFLES IN THEIR HANDS; WE ALSO CAPTURED OTHERS WHO WERE INSIDE THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY.</p><p>I ALSO WANT TO ASK THE CIVILIAN POPULATION FOR ITS UNDERSTANDING AND TO TRUST THEIR ARMED FORCES. THESE ARMED FORCES BELONG TO THE PEOPLE AND SERVE THEM. WE ARE ACTING IN A PROFESSIONAL MANNER. BE PATIENT, REMAIN CALM, AND WE WILL MOVE AHEAD WITH GOD'S BLESSING AND HELP. ALSO, I WANT TO PUBLICLY RECOGNIZE THE MILITARY CHIEFS, OFFICERS, ENLISTED MEN, SECURITY CORPS OFFICIALS, AND ALL THE ARMED FORCES' ACTIVE PERSONNEL FOR THEIR HEROIC WORK IN DEFENDING OUR PEOPLE, DEMOCRACY, LIBERTY, AND PEACE. YOUR ACTIONS HAVE BEEN HEROIC, AND ALL OF US RECOGNIZE THIS. MAY HISTORY DO YOU JUSTICE TOMORROW. YOU MUST FEEL PROUD BECAUSE YOU ARE DOING WHAT EVERY PATRIOT MUST DO, DEFEND THE FATHERLAND.</p></body></html>