<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0278"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0278"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0278</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0278 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 3 JUL 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] ARMED FORCES COMMANDER GENERAL OSCAR BOTERO RESTREPO REPORTED TODAY THAT GUERRILLAS OF THE PRO - CASTRO ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION (ELN) SET FIRE TO THREE TANK TRUCKS THAT WERE CARRYING OIL FROM THE CANO LIMON OILFIELD IN ARAUCA DEPARTMENT, WHICH BORDERS VENEZUELA, TO COLOMBIA'S INTERIOR.</p><p>THE ATTACK WAS CARRIED OUT IN BOQUERON, BETWEEN PAJARITO AND YOPAL, IN CASANARE DEPARTMENT, WHERE THE SUBVERSIVES HAVE UNLEASHED A VIOLENT CAMPAIGN AGAINST COLOMBIA'S OIL INFRASTRUCTURE TO FORCE THEIR DEMANDS FOR THE NATIONALIZATION OF THE OIL INDUSTRY.</p><p>GEN BOTERO SAID THAT THE REBELS -- WHO HAVE DYNAMITED THE COUNTRY'S MAIN OIL PIPELINE, THE CANO LIMON - CONVENAS PIPELINE, 23 TIMES THUS FAR THIS YEAR -- INTERCEPTED THE VEHICLES IN THE MIDDLE OF THE HIGHWAY AND SET THEM ON FIRE AFTER FORCING THE DRIVERS TO GET OUT OF THE VEHICLES. THE ELN GUERRILLAS SIMULTANEOUSLY WROTE SLOGANS IN SUPPORT OF THE SO-CALLED SIMON BOLIVAR NATIONAL GUERRILLA COORDINATING BOARD. DURING THE LAST FEW HOURS, THIS GROUP AGREED WITH PRESIDENT BARCO'S ADMINISTRATION TO BEGIN A DIRECT DIALOGUE TO SEEK PEACE IN COLOMBIA.</p><p>NO DEATHS WERE REPORTED IN THE ATTACK BY THE ELN, WHICH WAS FOUNDED DURING THE 1960'S AND IS LED BY MANUEL PEREZ, A SPANISH PRIEST.</p><p>MEANWHILE, ANOTHER COMMANDO GROUP FROM THE CAMILIST UNION (NAMED IN MEMORY OF COLOMBIAN PRIEST CAMILO RESTREPO, WHO WAS KILLED BY SOLDIERS IN 1966 WHILE STILL A MEMBER OF THE ELN), AMBUSHED A MILITARY PATROL ON THE AGUA AZUL - TERRANOVA HIGHWAY, ALSO IN CASANARE, KILLING TWO SOLDIERS. GEN BOTERO SAID THAT TWO SOLDIERS STEPPED ON A MINE DURING THE GUERRILLA ATTACK AND THREE OTHER SOLDIERS WERE WOUNDED.</p></body></html>