<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1266"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1266"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1266</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1266 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 4 MAY 90 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE, COPREFA] [TEXT] THE MILITARY HIGH COMMAND EMPHATICALLY REJECTS THE JUNIOR OFFICER'S STATEMENTS, CONSIDERED A TYPE OF GRAY PROPOGANDA, BECAUSE NO PERSON OR GROUP OF PERSONS HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THEM. THE STATEMENTS ARE BIASED IN FAVOR OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN].</p><p>ON 10 JANUARY 1981 A SERIES OF SIMILARLY ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND STATEMENTS WERE CIRCULATED. THE MILITARY INTELLIGENCE LEARNED THAT THE LETTERS WERE PART OF A STRATEGY IMPLEMENTED BY FORMER CAPTAIN FRANCISCO SANDOVAL, ALONG WITH OTHER MEMBERS OF THE SALVADORAN SUBVERSION.</p><p>IN ADDITION, SOMETHING SIMILAR HAPPENED IN NOVEMBER 1989, BUT THIS TIME IT WAS DONE BY A HIGH-RANKING MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL UNION OF SALVADORAN WORKERS, WHO CLAIMED THAT HE HAD RECEIVED A COMMUNIQUE FROM JUNIOR OFFICERS ON A NUMBER OF IRREGULARITIES THAT WERE REPORTEDLY OCCURRING WITHIN THE ARMED FORCES.</p><p>THE FMLN TERRORIST GROUPS LAUNCHED OFFENSIVES ON BOTH OCCASIONS. ACCORDING TO THEIR GOALS, THE FINAL TASK WAS TO SEIZE POWER BY FORCE AND BY ALL MEANS, EVEN IF THEY HAD TO SACRIFICE THE LIVES OF MANY SALVADORAN CIVILIANS AND SEVERELY DAMAGE HOUSES AND THE COUNTRY'S ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES ARE AWARE OF THEIR HIGH LEVEL OF PROFESSIONALISM AND THEIR OWN INSTITUTIONAL ETHICS AND PHILOSOPHY AS DEMANDED BY THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC AND REITERATE THAT THEIR MISSION WILL ALWAYS BE TO DEFEND THE NATION'S SOVEREIGNTY AND TO PROTECT EACH AND EVERY ONE OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S LIFE AND INTERESTS.</p><p>THEREFORE, IT IS USELESS TO TRY TO UNDERMINE THE ARMED FORCES' MORALE AND TO CONFUSE AND DIVIDE ALL THE MEMBERS COMPRISING THE ARMED FORCES THROUGH GROUNDLESS COMMUNIQUES WHICH ARE INTENDED TO CREATE FALSE EXPECTATIONS FOR THE NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC.</p></body></html>