<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0090"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0090"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="FRIJANES"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0090</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0090 (NOSC)</p><p>FRIJANES, 29 MAR 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] ELITE UNITS OF THE GUATEMALAN ARMY THIS AFTERNOON BEGAN TO SURROUND PAVON PRISON, WHICH SINCE 26 MARCH HAS BEEN IN THE HANDS OF SOME 200 PRISONERS WHO ARE HOLDING MORE THAN 500 PEOPLE HOSTAGE.</p><p>THE UNITS WERE DEPLOYED TO PAVON, 30 KM SOUTHEAST OF THE GUATEMALAN CAPITAL, TO APPLY PRESSURE ON THE PRISONERS, WHO TODAY REFUSED TO SIGN A DOCUMENT CONTAINING GUARANTEES DRAFTED BY THE MEDIATION COMMISSION.</p><p>INSTEAD, THE PRISONERS PRESENTED A COUNTERPROPOSAL TO THE MEDIATION COMMISSION--WHICH WAS ESTABLISHED BY PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO HIMSELF TO "PREVENT BLOODSHED"--SEVERAL COMMISSION MEMBERS SAID AS THEY LEFT THE PENAL CENTER.</p><p>A POSSIBLE PEACEFUL SOLUTION THAT WAS HOPED FOR YESTERDAY IS AGAIN "ON HOLD" TODAY BECAUSE OF THE REBELS' REFUSAL TO SIGN THE DOCUMENT.</p><p>HUMAN RIGHTS ATTORNEY GENERAL GONZALO MENENDEZ SAID THAT "THE SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEM IS AGAIN AT AN IMPASSE, BECAUSE THE GOVERNMENT MINISTER MUST ANALYZE THE PRISONERS' PROPOSAL."</p><p>THE UPRISING, WHICH BEGAN AT 1100 (1700 GMT) ON 26 MARCH AND WHICH INCLUDES DEMANDS FOR BETTER JAIL CONDITIONS, HAS LEFT AT LEAST 12 DEAD AND SOME 20 INJURED, ACCORDING TO POLICE SPOKESMEN.</p><p>SOME 150 HONOR GUARD MEMBERS, "ALL EXPERTS IN DISORDERS AND UPRISINGS," HAVE BEEN POSITIONED NEAR THE PRISON UNDER THE COMMAND OF A LIEUTENANT COLONEL AND FIVE OTHER OFFICERS, ACCORDING TO STATEMENTS MADE TO ACAN-EFE BY A TOP MILITARY OFFICER, WHO ASKED TO REMAIN ANONYMOUS.</p><p>THE ASSAULT TROOPS ARE ARMED WITH BATONS, TEAR GAS, GAS MASKS, AND MACHINEGUNS.</p><p>"MY MEN ARE CAPABLE OF DEALING WITH DISORDERS AND HAVE BEEN PREPARED FOR CASES SUCH AS THIS ONE," THE MILITARY CHIEF SAID.</p><p>THE REBELLIOUS PRISONERS, WHO HAVE CONTROL OF 65 PERCENT OF THE PRISON INSTALLATIONS, REMAIN INFLEXIBLE AND REFUSE TO RELEASE THE HOSTAGES AND LAY DOWN THEIR WEAPONS.</p><p>DESPITE THE MEDIATING COMMISSION'S OPTIMISM, AFTER 72 HOURS THE REBELLIOUS PRISONERS PRESENTED A NEW PROPOSAL TODAY AT NOON, HUMAN RIGHTS ATTORNEY GENERAL GONZALO MENENDEZ SAID.</p></body></html>