<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1154"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1154"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1154</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1154 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 6 MAR 90 (TELEONCE TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] NOW, JUST LIKE 13 YEARS AGO WHEN A DEMOCRATIC ADMINISTRATION WAS INSTALLED IN THE WHITE HOUSE, THE RELATIONS BETWEEN GUATEMALA AND THE UNITED STATES ARE PARTICULARLY TENSE, AND TODAY, JUST LIKE THEN, THE REASON FOR THE TENSION IN THEIR BILATERAL RELATIONS IS THE HUMAN RIGHTS SITUATION, BECAUSE, ACCORDING TO THE REPUBLICAN ADMINISTRATION OF GEORGE BUSH, THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT OF VINICIO CEREZO DOES NOT SEEM TO HAVE ENOUGH POLITICAL WILL TO NEUTRALIZE THE PROBLEMS THAT ARE AFFECTING THE SECURITY OF CITIZENS AND INDIVIDUAL GUARANTEES.</p><p>IN MARCH 1977, NEWLY INSTALLED U.S. PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER DEMANDED THAT THE REGIME HEADED BY GENERAL KJELL LAUGERUD RECTIFY A DOMESTIC POLICY THAT, ACCORDING TO THE WHITE HOUSE, WAS CHARACTERIZED BY REPRESSIVE PRACTICES AGAINST THE OPPOSITION AND PEASANT AND LABOR GROUPS. THE GUATEMALAN AUTHORITIES REACTED BY REJECTING U.S. MILITARY AID. THE SAME POSITION WAS ADOPTED, AMID VERY SIMILAR CIRCUMSTANCES, BY THE MILITARY GOVERNMENTS OF JORGE VIDELA IN ARGENTINA AND AUGUSTO PINOCHET IN CHILE.</p><p>RELATIONS BETWEEN GUATEMALA AND WASHINGTON CONTINUED TO BE TORTUOUS DURING THE BALANCE OF THE CARTER ADMINISTRATION AND ONLY IMPROVED, RELATIVELY SPEAKING, WHEN REPUBLICAN RONALD REAGAN TOOK OFFICE IN 1981. HOWEVER, ONLY YEARS LATER -- WITH THE COMMITMENT TO DEMOCRATIZATION BY DE FACTO MILITARY GOVERNMENTS THAT LED THE COUNTRY FROM 1982 AND 1985 -- WAS THERE A CONCILIATORY ATTITUDE BETWEEN GUATEMALA AND THE UNITED STATES THAT BROUGHT ABOUT QUITE HARMONIOUS RELATIONS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENTS OF PRESIDENT CEREZO AND PRESIDENTS REAGAN AND BUSH UNTIL MID-1989.</p><p>ON 27 FEBRUARY U.S. AMBASSADOR THOMAS STROOK CRITICIZED THE GUATEMALAN AUTHORITIES' FAILURE TO PURSUE THE AUTHORS OF MURDERS AND OF KIDNAPPINGS OF POLITICAL, STUDENT, AND LABOR LEADERS, AND THUS WORSENED AN ATMOSPHERE OF CONFRONTATION THAT HAD RESURFACED ABOUT SIX MONTHS AGO WHEN AMBASSADOR STROOK, WHO HAD JUST ARRIVED IN GUATEMALA, OBJECTED TO THE APPOINTMENT OF COLONEL HUGO MORAN CARRANZA, FORMER DIRECTOR OF ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL, TO THE POST OF MANAGER OF THE SANTO TOMAS DE CASTILLA PORT ENTERPRISE. THE AMBASSADOR JUSTIFIED HIS OBJECTION BY CLAIMING THAT ASPECTS RELATED TO INTERNATIONAL DRUG TRAFFICKING HAD TO BE RESOLVED FIRST.</p><p>ON 6 MARCH, PRESIDENT CEREZO SAID THAT THE UNITED STATES HAD HARDENED ITS ATTITUDE TOWARD THE GUATEMALAN REGIME AND THAT THIS ATTITUDE CONTRASTS WITH A TOLERANT POSTURE EXHIBITED TOWARD PREVIOUS ADMINISTRATIONS IN GUATEMALA:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CEREZO] THEY HAVE HARSHLY CRITICIZED THE COURTS SITUATION. THE SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE [WORDS INDISTINCT] AND AS A RESULT OF THE UN ACTION A DRAFT PROCEDURAL LAW WILL BE SUBMITTED. THIS SHOULD BE APPROVED AND PROCEEDINGS SHOULD IMPROVE IN GUATEMALA IN ABOUT [WORD INDISTINCT] YEARS.</p><p>HOWEVER, WE ARE DEALING WITH LONG-TERM EFFORT. WE HAVE MADE INSTITUTIONAL CHANGES FOR ONLY FOUR YEARS. I SINCERELY BELIEVE THAT THE U.S. ATTITUDE TOWARD A COUNTRY THAT IS MAKING EFFORTS TO MOVE FORWARD IS UNFAIR AND OVERLY CRITICAL. IT IS BEING MORE CRITICAL OF THE CURRENT GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT THAN IT EVER WAS TOWARD PAST DICTATORSHIPS. THE UNITED STATES HAS BEEN CONSIDERABLY HARSHER IN CRITICIZING THE CURRENT GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT [WORDS INDISTINCT] DEMOCRACY THAN PAST DICTATORIAL GOVERNMENTS, TO WHICH THE UNITED STATES, IN CERTAIN CASES, WAS AN ACCOMPLICE BY SAYING NOTHING [WORDS INDISTINCT]. [END RECORDING]</p><p>ONLY HOURS AFTER THE PRESIDENT MADE THESE STATEMENTS, THE U.S. EMBASSY IN GUATEMALA ISSUED A COMMUNIQUE STATING THAT IF THE UNITED STATES ABSTAINED FROM VOICING ITS CONCERN OVER HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES, IT WOULD INDEED BE ACTING AS AN ACCOMPLICE. THE COMMUNIQUE CITES STATEMENTS MADE ON 5 MARCH IN WASHINGTON BY STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESWOMAN MARGARET TUTWILLER THAT U.S. AMBASSADOR STROOK, IN HIS CAPACITY AS PRESIDENT BUSH'S PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE, HAS ON MANY OCCASIONS TOLD TOP GUATEMALAN OFFICIALS, IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE, THAT THOSE WHO COMMIT VIOLENT ACTS MUST BE TURNED OVER TO JUSTICE.</p><p>STROOK IS CURRENTLY IN WASHINGTON WHERE HE WAS RECALLED BY THE STATE DEPARTMENT FOR CONSULTATIONS. ACCORDING TO THE DIPLOMATIC MISSION, THE AMBASSADOR'S STATEMENTS ACCURATELY REFLECT THE PERMANENT U.S. POSITION OF CONSIDERING HUMAN RIGHTS AS AN ISSUE THAT MUST BE TREATED AT AN INTERNATIONAL LEVEL. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>