<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0722"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0722"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0722</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0722 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 13 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] IS USING DISINFORMATION BECAUSE IT HAS BEEN BEATEN BY THE ARMED FORCES. THE FMLN TODAY RESORTED TO THE STRATEGY OF DISINFORMATION SINCE THEY HAVE BEEN DEFEATED BY OUR BRAVE AND PROFESSIONAL ARMED FORCES. IN A DESPERATE MANNER AND THROUGH THEIR CLANDESTINE RADIO STATION, THE FMLN IS BROADCASTING FALSE REPORTS, SUCH AS THE FOLLOWING. THEY SAID THEY WERE FIGHTING THE ARMED FORCES WITH THE PEOPLE'S SUPPORT THIS MORNING AND THAT THIS OCCURRED 10 BLOCKS FROM THE PRESIDENTIAL PALACE. THE FMLN INSISTED THAT CIVILIANS HAD HELPED THEM AT THE REBEL BARRICADES. THIS IS TOTALLY FALSE.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES CONTINUE TO PROTECT THE CIVILIAN RESIDENTS OF SAN JACINTO NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE INVENTIONS BROADCAST BY THE FMLN ARE A STRATEGY TO CONFUSE PEOPLE. THE ARMED FORCES CALL ON ALL SALVADORANS NOT TO BE SURPRISED BY THESE STRATEGIES AND TO CONTINUE REPUDIATING THE TERRORIST CRIMINALS, WHO HAVE ONLY BROUGHT AGGRESSION, PAIN, AND GRIEF TO THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. THE ARMED FORCES CONTROL THE ENTIRE NATIONAL TERRITORY, INCLUDING SAN SALVADOR. THE SHOTS THAT ARE HEARD OR WERE HEARD A FEW HOURS AGO ARE PART OF THE ARMED FORCES DEFENSE AGAINST INDISCRIMINATE FMLN ATTACKS ON THE CIVILIAN POPULATION.</p></body></html>