<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1134"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1134"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1134</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1134 (UNISYS)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 18 FEB 90 (PRAVDA) -- [ARTICLE] [PAVEL BOGOMOLOV] [TEXT] THE ANNALS OF THE COLOMBIAN PORT OF CARTAGENA LIST THREE EXTREMELY FIERCE SIEGES. BACK IN 1586, THE "JEWEL OF THE CARIBBEAN" WAS CAPTURED BY SIR FRANCIS DRAKE, WHO DID NOT BURN THE CITY TO THE GROUND ONLY BECAUSE HE RECEIVED A RANSOM OF 10 MILLION PESOS. A CENTURY LATER CARTAGENA WAS OCCUPIED BY THE FRENCH. FINALLY, IN 1741, THE CITY'S DEFENDERS SUCCESSFULLY FOUGHT OFF AN ASSAULT BY A HOST OF 27,000 PIRATES HEADED BY SIR EDWARD VERNON...</p><p>THE WESTERN PRESS DESCRIBED THE MEETING BETWEEN THE PRESIDENTS OF THE UNITED STATES, BOLIVIA, COLOMBIA, AND PERU HELD A FEW DAYS AGO IN CARTAGENA AS A KIND OF ASSAULT. DESPITE SOME EXAGGERATION, THIS GRAPHIC DESCRIPTION WAS BASED ON PERFECTLY SERIOUS GROUNDS. AFTER ALL, THE CONFERENCE DID DISCUSS IMMEDIATE TASKS AND EVEN A DETAILED SCHEDULE FOR A JOINT OFFENSIVE BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF THESE COUNTRIES AGAINST CRIMINAL DRUG TRAFFICKING, WHICH RANKS FIRST IN THE PECKING ORDER OF CRIME.</p><p>IT IS INDEED NECESSARY TO LAUNCH AN ASSAULT AGAINST THE DRUG MAFIA'S STRONGHOLDS, WHETHER IN MEDELLIN, "FAMOUS" FOR UNBRIDLED GANGSTERISM, OR IN CARTAGENA ITSELF, WHOSE STATUS AS A RESORT IS THREATENED BY THE SELFSAME "COCAINE BARONS." AS A MATTER OF FACT, THIS TOURIST CENTER HAS BEEN REPEATEDLY SHAKEN IN RECENT MONTHS BY THE EXPLOSIONS OF BOMBS PLANTED BY TERRORISTS IN THE "HILTON" HOTEL, IN STORES, OR AT ITS MARINAS. IT IS NO WONDER, AS REUTER REPORTS, THAT NOT A SINGLE CRUISE SHIP HAS DROPPED ANCHOR THERE THIS SEASON.</p><p>YES, THE SITUATION IS HIGHLY ALARMING, AND THIS APPLIES TO THE WHOLE OF COLOMBIA AND EVEN TO THE ENTIRE REGION. IN THESE CONDITIONS THE FIRM RESOLVE DISPLAYED BY THE PARTICIPANTS IN THE CARTAGENA MEETING DESERVES UNDERSTANDING AND SUPPORT: THE RESOLVE TO FINALLY POOL THEIR EFFORTS IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST ORGANIZED CRIME AND TO JOINTLY PLACE A RELIABLE BARRIER IN ITS PATH. THESE ARE THE INTENTIONS SHOWN IN THE JOINT STATEMENT SIGNED BY THE FOUR PRESIDENTS AND BY THE SERIES OF SPECIAL DOCUMENTS.</p><p>THE AIM OF THESE AGREEMENTS IS NOBLE INDEED: TO BESIEGE THE DRUG MAFIA IN ITS NESTS, TO CUT OFF THE "LAUNDERING" OF DRUG DOLLARS, AND TO DEPRIVE THE MERCHANTS OF "SLOW DEATH" OF BROAD ACCESS TO THE "BLACK MARKET" IN THE UNITED STATES, WHERE, AS A MATTER OF FACT, THE LION'S SHARE OF SOUTH AMERICA'S POISONOUS EXPORT IS CONSUMED. IN OTHER WORDS, AN IMPORTANT STEP HAS BEEN TAKEN TO COMBAT ONE OF THE MAIN "EVILS OF THE 20TH CENTURY," AND IT WAS NOT FOR NOTHING THAT THE MEETING'S RESULTS WERE POSITIVELY APPRAISED BY UN SECRETARY GENERAL J. PEREZ DE CUELLAR.</p><p>HERE IS A DIFFERENT QUESTION: EMPHASIS IN CARTAGENA WAS PLACED ON ADMINISTRATIVE AND POLICE MEASURES AND ON WASHINGTON'S PRIMARILY MILITARIZED FORMS OF COOPERATION WITH THE ANDEAN STATES, BUT DOES THIS CONFORM WITH THEIR LONG-TERM NATIONAL INTERESTS, WITH THEIR DESIRE TO PUT AN END TO BACKWARDNESS AND ATTAIN A QUALITATIVELY NEW LEVEL OF SOCIOECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT? AFTER ALL, A RADICAL SOLUTION OF THE DRUG PROBLEM PRIMARILY DEMANDS NEITHER COMBAT AIRCRAFT NOT ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIERS, BUT SOMETHING QUITE DIFFERENT. IT IS NECESSARY TO CHANGE THE ECONOMIC PROFILE OF VAST PROVINCES WHERE THE CULTIVATION OF COCA AND MARIJUANA IS THE SOLE SOURCE OF THE POPULATION'S EXISTENCE.</p><p>TRUE ENOUGH, THE UNITED STATES HAS NOW EXPRESSED READINESS TO ASSIST ALSO IN THIS SPHERE. ON THE OTHER HAND, THERE IS AN ALMOST TOTAL LACK OF READINESS TO IMPORT FROM SOUTH AMERICA THE CROPS WHICH COULD, IN PRINCIPLE, SQUEEZE OUT COCA AND MARIJUANA. IT WAS NOT FOR NOTHING THAT COLOMBIA'S PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO, THE WHITE HOUSE'S CLOSEST ALLY IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUGS, WAS FORCED TO DECLARE IN CARTAGENA THAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT'S RIGID PROTECTIONIST MEASURES ARE JEOPARDIZING THE VERY FUTURE OF "ALTERNATIVE" SECTORS OF TROPICAL CROP FARMING -- THE CULTIVATION OF COFFEE, FLOWERS, AND SUGAR CANE. AND SO THE "SENIOR PARTNER" APPEARS TO BE TIGHTENING WITH THE ONE HAND THE VISE IN WHICH THE DRUG MAFIA NOW FINDS ITSELF, WHILE USING THE OTHER HAND TO PROTECT ITS MARKET FROM LEGAL LATIN AMERICAN EXPORTS.</p><p>FINALLY, THE LAST BUT, I THINK, MOST SUBSTANTIVE ARGUMENT. ACTUALLY, IT ALSO CASTS AN UNFAVORABLE LIGHT ON THE ROLE OF CONSISTENT FIGHTER AGAINST THE DRUG MAFIA WHICH WASHINGTON HAS NOW ASSUMED. THIS ARGUMENT IS PERFECTLY ENCAPSULATED IN JUST ONE SHORT WORD: "PANAMA." INDEED, DID THE RECENT AGGRESSION AGAINST THIS SOVEREIGN STATE, ONE OF WHOSE MAIN MOTIVES WAS ACTUALLY "TO PUNISH THE DRUG BUSINESS BOSSES," NOT DEMONSTRATE ALL THE FLAWS OF WASHINGTON'S "STRONGARM APPROACH" TOWARD LATIN AMERICA? AND ARE THERE ANY GUARANTEES THAT THE PENTAGON WILL NOT START "COPYING" ITS PANAMANIAN EXPERIENCE IN OTHER COUNTRIES IN THE CONTINENT ON THE PRETEXT OF PURSUING THE "COCAINE BARONS"?</p><p>THESE ARE FAR FROM RHETORICAL QUESTIONS, AND IT IS A PITY THAT CARTAGENA SIMPLY FAILED TO PROVIDE EVEN THE SLIGHTEST CLEAR-CUT ANSWERS TO THEM.</p></body></html>