<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0621"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0621"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-31"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0621</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0621 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 31 OCT 89 (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [TEXT] THE ATTACK WITH EXPLOSIVES THAT HAS BEEN PERPETRATED BY UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUALS AGAINST THE OFFICE OF THE OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO COMMITTEE OF MOTHERS, RELATIVES OF POLITICAL PRISONERS, MISSING, AND MURDERED PEOPLE, LEFT FOUR WOUNDED AND SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY DAMAGE.</p><p>NATIONAL UNION OF SALVADORAN WORKERS, UNTS, SPOKESMEN SAID THAT ONE OF THE WOUNDED IS U.S. CITIZEN BRENDA FUGART, TWO COMADRES ACTIVISTS IDENTIFIED ONLY AS PABLO AND MARGARITA, AND A 4-MONTH-OLD MINOR CALLED NELSON ANTONIO.</p><p>THE UNTS MEMBERS SAID THAT PERSONS LIVING NEAR THE OFFICE, LOCATED IN THE SAN MIGUELITO DISTRICT OF THIS CAPITAL, NOTICED THAT THE ATTACKERS WERE SOLDIERS IN UNIFORM.</p><p>THE COMADRES MEMBERS HAVE SCHEDULED A NEWS CONFERENCE AT 0900 TODAY AT THE SITE OF THE ATTACK, DURING WHICH THEY WILL REPORT ON THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE WOUNDED IN THE EXPLOSION AND THE AMOUNT OF THE PROPERTY DAMAGE, WHICH TOOK PLACE AT 0215 TODAY.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE, COPREFA, DENIED ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACK AND, INSTEAD, BLAMED THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT]. ACCORDING TO COPREFA, ALL THE FMLN HAS TRIED TO DO WITH THIS ATTACK IS TO PAPER OVER YESTERDAY'S FOILED ATTACK AGAINST THE ARMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF.</p><p>IN ANOTHER REPORT, THE ARMED FORCES CLAIMED IN A REPORT THAT THEY INFLICTED EIGHT CASUALTIES ON THE FMLN IN FIGHTING DURING THE LAST FEW HOURS IN SEVERAL PARTS OF THE COUNTRY. THE MILITARY REPORT POINTS OUT THAT TROOPS ENGAGED INSURGENTS IN THE VILLAGES OF CHIAPAS, TAMULASCO, AND TEPEYAC, ALL OF WHICH ARE IN THE JURISDICTION OF CHALATENANGO, CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT. ONE GUERRILLA WAS KILLED, AND FOUR GUERRILLAS AND ONE SOLDIER WERE WOUNDED IN THIS ACTION.</p><p>IN ADDITION, IN A BATTLE AT FINCA CATORCE, JURISDICTION OF QUEZALTEPEQUE, LA LIBERTAD, A REBEL WAS KILLED AND TWO WERE WOUNDED. THE MILITARY REPORT ADDS THAT EARLY TODAY THREE HARASSMENT ACTIONS AGAINST CIVIL DEFENSE POSTS WERE REPORTED. THESE TOOK PLACE IN SAN JOSE AGUACATITAN, JURISDICTION OF SAN MARCOS; EL CARRIZALILLO CANTON, IN METAPAN, SANTA ANA; AND AGAINST MEMBERS OF THE ARTILLERY BRIGADE IN ILOBASCO, CABANAS DEPARTMENT. NO CASUALTIES WERE REPORTED ON EITHER SIDE DURING THESE ACTIONS.</p><p>FINALLY, ACCORDING TO A POLICE REPORT, ALLEGED URBAN GUERRILLA COMMANDOS THIS MORNING KILLED AN EMPLOYEE OF THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE IN SAN SALVADOR. THIS INCIDENT TOOK PLACE AT 0430 TODAY BETWEEN SAN ANTONIO ABAD STREET AND ANTEL - [NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS] (MONTEBELLO), IN THE WESTERN SECTOR OF THE CAPITAL. THE VICTIM WAS IDENTIFIED AS JUAN CARLOS MERIOS. HE WAS AN ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL OF THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE. ACCORDING TO THE CORONER'S REPORT, MERIOS' BODY HAD FOUR BULLET WOUNDS.</p></body></html>