<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0961"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0961"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0961</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0961 (SRI)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 10 DEC 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [STATEMENT] [NICARAGUAN FOREIGN MINISTER MIGUEL D'ESCOTO BROCKMAN] [TEXT] I CAME BECAUSE I WAS TOLD THAT OUR REPORTER FRIENDS WERE GREATLY INTERESTED IN KNOWING WHAT IS HAPPENING. I UNDERSTAND THAT ATTITUDE BECAUSE I WORKED AS A NEWSMAN FOR MANY YEARS. I ALSO UNDERSTAND YOUR NEED TO TRANSMIT INFORMATION TO OUR CENTRAL AMERICAN PEOPLE, WHO ARE SO INTERESTED IN THE SUCCESS OF THIS CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS' SUMMIT, AND TO THE REST OF THE INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC, WHO ARE INTERESTED THAT PROGRESS IS BEING MADE TOWARD A FINAL PEACE IN CENTRAL AMERICA.</p><p>YESTERDAY EVENING, THE FOREIGN MINISTERS AGREED NOT TO SPEAK TO THE PRESS INDIVIDUALLY. WE APPOINTED COSTA RICAN FOREIGN MINISTER RODRIGO MADRIGAL NIETO AS OUR SPOKESMAN. HE SAID WHAT WE HAD AGREED TO SAY AT THAT TIME. IN FACT, THERE IS NOT MUCH MORE TO REPORT NOW. FOREIGN MINISTER MADRIGAL NIETO TOLD YOU YESTERDAY THAT THE FOREIGN MINISTERS HAD BASICALLY DEVOTED THEIR TIME TO EXAMINING THREE TOPICS. WE ALSO HAD TWO MORE TOPICS, BUT IN ALL THERE WERE THREE TOPICS. I THINK HE MENTIONED THE CONTRAS' DEMOBILIZATION, THE INTERNAL SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR, AND A THIRD TOPIC, BUT RIGHT NOW I DO NOT DARE TO SAY WHAT IT WAS LEST I MAKE A MISTAKE. [AT THIS POINT, AN UNIDENTIFIED PERSON INTERRUPTS, SAYING: "ONUCA"]</p><p>HE MENTIONED ONUCA [UN OBSERVER GROUP IN CENTRAL AMERICA]. THAT IS CORRECT. IN FACT, WE DISCUSSED FIVE TOPICS, BUT IF HE SAID...[CHANGES THOUGHT] ONUCA WAS ONE OF THEM. SO WE HAVE DEMOBILIZATION, THE SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR, AND ONUCA. THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS DEVOTED THEIR TIME TO THESE THREE TOPICS.</p><p>THIS WAS NOT SO EASY. SOME SAY THE THING TO DO IS TO CLEARLY AND CATEGORICALLY CONDEMN THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] FOR...[CHANGES THOUGHT] AND TO DESCRIBE IT AS A TERRORIST GROUP. OTHERS SAY: LET US CONDEMN TERRORISM IN GENERAL, AND ALSO ANYONE WHO USES IT. SOME ATTACH A GREAT DEAL OF IMPORTANCE TO WHAT INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS SPECIALIZING IN DEFENDING AND PROMOTING RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS SAY, NAMELY ORGANIZATIONS LIKE AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL, AMERICA'S WATCH, THE GENEVA-BASED INTERNATIONAL LEAGUE OF JURISTS, THE OAS' INTER-AMERICAN COMMITTEE ON HUMAN RIGHTS, THE UN HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION, THE UN'S TASK FORCE ON FORCED DISAPPEARANCES, AND THE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CATHOLIC INSTITUTE IN LONDON, ENGLAND. ALL THESE ORGANIZATIONS, WHICH UNDOUBTEDLY FROM THE NICARAGUAN STANDPOINT DESERVE RESPECT AND CREDIBILITY, INDICATE MATTERS ARE NOT SIMPLY BLACK AND WHITE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>