<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0396"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0396"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="JERUSALEM (ISRAEL)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0396</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0396 (BBN)</p><p>JERUSALEM (ISRAEL), 29 AUG 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [INTERVIEW WITH ENERGY AND INFRASTRUCTURE MINISTER MOSHE SHAHAL BY HAYIM HECHT] [EXCERPT] BEFORE ADDRESSING THE ISSUE OF COLOMBIA, MINISTER SHAHAL POINTED OUT: I DO NOT KNOW ABOUT ANY CARTELS IN COLOMBIA, NOR DID I MEET ANY CATTLE BREEDERS [REFERENCE TO THE PROFESSION CLAIMED [BEGIN RECORDING] [SHAHAL] WE HAVE AN EXCELLENT RELATIONSHIP WITH COLOMBIA IN SEVERAL VERY CONCRETE SPHERES. THESE INCLUDE THE PURCHASE OF COAL, FOR WHICH WE SIGNED A 4-YEAR CONTRACT DURING MY VISIT THERE ABOUT A YEAR AGO. THAT CONTRACT HAS BEEN FULFILLED TO THE SATISFACTION OF BOTH SIDES. THE COLOMBIAN COAL IS EXCELLENT, AS IS THE PRICE WE PAY FOR IT. WE ARE A VERY GOOD CUSTOMER, AND THE RELATIONS BETWEEN US ARE VERY CLOSE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>BY THE WAY, THE TRADE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES WAS FORMULATED BY THE LADY IN THE NEWS, MONICA DE GREIFF, WHO WAS THE ENERGY MINISTRY DIRECTOR GENERAL DURING MINISTER SHAHAL'S VISIT TO COLUMBIA. AT PRESENT SHE IS BOGOTA'S JUSTICE MINISTER, AND IS HIDING IN THE UNITED STATES FROM THE DRUG CARTEL'S ASSASSINATION THREATS.</p><p>MINISTER SHAHAL STRESSED THAT IN HIS MEETINGS WITH THE ADMINISTRATION HEADS IN COLOMBIA, THE LATTER HAD LAVISHED PRAISE ON THE ASSISTANCE EXTENDED BY OUR DEFENSE SECTOR TO COLOMBIA.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [SHAHAL] IT IS ABSOLUTELY TRUE. ISRAEL TRAINED COLOMBIAN DEFENSE ESTABLISHMENT ELEMENTS; THIS WAS DONE IN THE CUSTOMARY WAY AND WITH THE APPROVAL OF THE DEFENSE MINISTER. COLOMBIA BOUGHT SECURITY PRODUCTS FROM ISRAEL, SUCH AS THE KFIR PLANES, WHICH WERE THE OTHER SIDE OF THE COAL PURCHASE. ON THE DAY I MET WITH THE COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT HE SIGNED AN ORDER APPROVING THE PURCHASE OF THE KFIR PLANES BY THE COLOMBIAN AIR FORCE. A DAY LATER WE SIGNED THE COAL AGREEMENT. THE TOTAL VALUE OF THE DEAL WAS ABOUT $200 TO $250 MILLION FOR EACH SIDE. [PASSAGE OMITTED] [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>