<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1150"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1150"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1150</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1150 (UNISYS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 4 MAR 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] THE AUTHORITIES AND SECURITY ORGANIZATIONS HAVE BEEN SURPRISED BY THE SHOCKING WAVE OF KIDNAPPINGS CARRIED OUT THROUGHOUT THE NATIONAL TERRITORY BY THE SELF-STYLED ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION, ELN. OVER THE PAST FEW HOURS, THE GROUP HAS KIDNAPPED 20 PEOPLE.</p><p>AMONG THE VICTIMS OF THE ELN'S SO-CALLED CAMILIST UNION ARE FOUR MAYORS, TWO DEPUTIES, SIX EXECUTIVES, CATTLEMEN, BUSINESSMEN, FARMERS, AND A POLICEMAN.</p><p>ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL REPORTS, 12 KIDNAPPINGS TOOK PLACE OVER THE PAST 18 HOURS. IN CESAR DEPARTMENT, MEMBERS OF THE CAMILIST UNION KIDNAPPED LIBERAL DEPUTY DARIO QUINTERO PATINO, 42, IN THE DOWNTOWN SECTION OF AGUACHICA MUNICIPALITY. NEWSMAN EMILIANO J. PACHECO, WHO WORKS FOR THE "ADVANCES OF CESAR" NEWSCAST OF THE ONDAS DEL CESAR RADIO STATION, WAS KIDNAPPED ALONG WITH THE POLITICAL LEADER.</p><p>EARLY ON SATURDAY MORNING, A GANG OF KIDNAPPERS, APPARENTLY ELN MEMBERS, KIDNAPPED CATTLEMAN MANUEL NARCISO MARTINEZ JAROCA, NEPHEW OF ANIBAL MARTINEZ ZURETA, CANDIDATE FOR MAYOR OF VALLEDUPAR AND FORMER COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE REPUBLIC. IN ADDITION, CELINA OSSA DE GOMEZ, CONSERVATIVE PARTY LEADER AND DEPUTY, WAS KIDNAPPED IN DOWNTOWN GRANADA, ANTIOQUIA. IN TIBU, NORTE DE SANTANDER, MAYOR EDUARDO ROLON DIAZ AND MAYORAL CANDIDATE ALVARO SARMIENTO HERRERA WERE ALSO KIDNAPPED BY THE SO-CALLED ELN CAMILIST UNION. THE TWO MEN WERE ON THEIR WAY TO LUNCH WHEN THEY WERE TAKEN BY SURPRISE BY THE REBELS.</p><p>AT NOON YESTERDAY, NEAR SAVANA DE TORRES, SANTANDER, ALVARO TORRES, AN EMPLOYEE OF THE AGRARIAN FUND; OSCAR CELIO TORRES GUTIERREZ, A SPOKESMAN FOR INCORA [COLOMBIAN INSTITUTE OF AGRARIAN REFORM]; MIGUEL CACEL, AN IMAT [EXPANSION UNKNOWN] OFFICIAL; AND A WORKER FROM PEDIAROZ WERE KIDNAPPED. THE ELN IS ALSO HOLDING NOEL FRANCISCO ACEVEDO AND JAVIER IGNACIO PENA, THE MAYORS OF EL CARMEN AND CALIFORNIA, SANTANDER, RESPECTIVELY; AND LIBERAL PARTY DEPUTY JUAN CARLOS DUARTE, WHO WAS ABDUCTED BY THE ELN ON TENERIFE ROAD, IN THE MUNICIPAL JURISDICTION OF CONCEPCION. DUARTE IS A DEPUTY FOR THE RENOVATION OF FREE SANTANDER LIBERAL PARTY.</p><p>ALONG THE ROAD FROM SAN VICENTE TO EL CARMEN, ALSO IN SANTANDER, GONZALO VASQUEZ ARDILA, MANAGER OF THE LOCAL AGRARIAN FUND, AND OLINDO MANTILLA ARDILA, A DIRECTOR OF THE (COTRAS MAGDALENA) COMPANY, WERE ALSO KIDNAPPED. THE TWO MEN WERE IN AN AUTOMOBILE WITH LICENSE PLATE UF-2171 WHEN THEY WERE ABDUCTED BY THE GUERRILLAS. THE DRIVER, MARCO TULIO GOMEZ, WAS ALSO KIDNAPPED, BUT RELEASED SEVERAL HOURS LATER.</p><p>HERNANDO TORRES JAIMES, MAYOR OF HACARI, NORTE DE SANTANDER, IS ALSO IN THE HANDS OF THE ELN. IN CORDOBA, CATTLEMAN GERMAN SIERRA MEDINA WAS KIDNAPPED ALONG THE EL TORO ROAD OF PIEDRA ALTA. IN CANALETE, ALSO IN CORDOBA, CATTLEMAN PEDRO PABLO MEJIA WAS KIDNAPPED. HE WAS AT THE LA CANA ESTATE WHEN THE GUERRILLAS KIDNAPPED HIM.</p><p>IN PEDREGALES, ON THE ROAD FROM ZULIA TO SARDINATA, THE ELN KIDNAPPED BUSINESSMAN SERGIO ALARCON. IN EL CENTENARIO, EL CARMEN, SANTANDER, MEMBERS OF THE CAMILIST UNION KIDNAPPED LANDOWNER SAMUEL PLAZAS.</p><p>THE AUTHORITIES ALSO ANNOUNCED THAT POLICEMAN EDISON AGUDELO AGUDELO WAS KIDNAPPED BY MEMBERS OF THE CAMILIST UNION AS HE WAS ON HIS WAY TO FRAGUAS CORREGIMIENTO IN REMEDIOS, ANTIOQUIA, TO CASH A CHECK.</p><p>THE AUTHORITIES AND SECRET SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS ANNOUNCED THAT INTENSIVE OPERATIONS ARE UNDERWAY IN AN EFFORT TO RESCUE THE HOSTAGES ALIVE. AT THE SAME TIME, THEY URGED LOCAL OFFICIALS AND POLITICAL LEADERS TO REFRAIN FROM TRAVELLING ALONE TO AVOID FALLING INTO THE HANDS OF THE GUERRILLAS.</p><p>WITH THIS SHOCKING WAVE OF KIDNAPPINGS, THE NUMBER OF SUCH ACTIONS IN COLOMBIA SO FAR IN 1990 HAS INCREASED TO 120.</p></body></html>