<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0771"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0771"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0771</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0771 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 16 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [REPORT] [COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF] [TEXT] SALVADORAN PEOPLE: AFTER 5 DAYS OF COMBAT, CONFRONTING THIS ARMED AGGRESSION BY THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] TERRORISTS, [WORDS INDISTINCT] I WANT TO INFORM YOU OF THE SITUATION THROUGHOUT THE NATION:</p><p>IN THE WESTERN AREA, THERE ARE NO PROBLEMS. IN THE EASTERN AREA, THERE ARE STILL PROBLEMS. IN SAN MIGUEL CITY, THE 3D INFANTRY BRIGADE COMMAND HAS BEEN OPERATING IN A PROFESSIONAL MANNER, AND IT HAS AVOIDED HARMING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION; THEREFORE, THERE ARE TERRORISTS IN THE [NAMES INDISTINCT] NEIGHBORHOODS. ALSO IN USULUTAN LAST NIGHT AND EARLY THIS MORNING, [WORDS INDISTINCT] BUT AT PRESENT ONLY SOME EXPLOSIONS AND SOME SPORADIC FIRING ARE HEARD IN THE VICINITY OF THE CITY OF USULUTAN. IN ZACATECOLUCA YESTERDAY WE MANAGED TO CONTROL THE POPULATION COMPLETELY. WE DISLODGED THE TERRORISTS FROM THE 27 SEPTEMBER NEIGHBORHOOD.</p><p>WE HAVE HAD SERIOUS PROBLEMS IN THE CAPITAL CITY. THE FMLN HAS WAGED ITS GREATEST EFFORTS HERE. THEY ARE [WORD INDISTINCT] TERRORISTS, AND THEY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED AS SUCH. IN SOME NEIGHBORHOODS IN THE NORTHERN AREA, THE [WORDS INDISTINCT] MEJICANOS, [WORDS INDISTINCT] AS OF SUNDAY, 12 NOVEMBER. IN SOME [WORDS INDISTINCT] AS IT WAS YESTERDAY. ALTHOUGH IT IS TRUE [WORDS INDISTINCT] OF THE CAPITAL CITY. IN MEJICANOS, IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD, [WORDS INDISTINCT] NORTH OF THE GUADALUPE AND SOYAPANGO NEIGHBORHOODS, [WORDS INDISTINCT] REPARTO SANTA MARTA, AND ALTOS DEL [WORD INDISTINCT]. IN THIS AREA, THE ARMED FORCES HAVE CARRIED OUT ACTIONS TO DEFEND THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE TO NEUTRALIZE THIS GENOCIDE [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>ON THE NATIONAL LEVEL, I WOULD LIKE TO ANNOUNCE SOME PARTIAL RESULTS. THE ARMED FORCES HAVE SUSTAINED THE FOLLOWING: 177 DEAD AND 251 WOUNDED.</p><p>AMONG THE TERRORISTS THERE ARE 655 DEAD AND 491 WOUNDED. WE HAVE CAPTURED 92 FMLN MEMBERS, AND 6 FMLN TERRORISTS HAVE TURNED THEMSELVES IN. AS FOR THE CIVILIANS, WE REGRET 47 PERSONS HAVE DIED, AND 153 HAVE BEEN WOUNDED.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES HAVE SEIZED FROM THE FMLN TERRORISTS 324 RIFLES, 75 GRENADE AND ROCKET LAUNCHERS, 26 MORTARS, 8 MACHINEGUNS, 15 SUBMACHINEGUNS, AND 40 WEAPONS OF OTHER TYPES. FOUR ARSENALS HAVE ALSO [WORDS INDISTINCT] IN MEJICANOS, WHERE THE TERRORISTS HAD A CONSIDERABLE QUANTITY OF AMMUNITION AND EXPLOSIVES.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE: YOU MUST HAVE CONFIDENCE IN YOUR ARMED FORCES AND IN YOUR GOVERNMENT BECAUSE WE ARE WORKING JOINTLY. OUR COMMANDER IN CHIEF IS UP TO DATE ON THE SITUATION, AND [WORDS INDISTINCT], AND WE ARE WORKING TOGETHER. THE ARMED FORCES IS WORKING IN A VERY PROFESSIONAL MANNER. YOU MUST UNDERSTAND THAT WE CANNOT RESOLVE THIS SITUATION BY ENDANGERING THE LIVES OF INNOCENT PEOPLE. THAT IS WHY IT TAKES LONGER FOR THE ARMED FORCES TO DO THINGS.</p><p>ON BEHALF OF THE ARMED FORCES, WE WANT TO THANK YOU, OUR PEOPLE, FOR YOUR SUPPORT, AS YOU HAVE BEEN PROVIDING US WITH PLENTY OF INFORMATION, SUPPORTING OUR TROOPS IN THE VARIOUS COMBAT AREAS, AND-- MOST IMPORTANT OF ALL--CONDEMNING AND REJECTING THIS TERRORIST ATTACK. THAT IS THE [WORDS INDISTINCT] OF THE FMLN.</p><p>WE ARE ALL WORKING, STRUGGLING TO MAINTAIN A DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM, TO MAINTAIN FREEDOM [WORD INDISTINCT], AND ACHIEVE PEACE. I ALSO WANT TO INFORM YOU THAT AFTER VISITING THIS AFTERNOON THE VARIOUS AREAS WHERE WE ARE [WORD INDISTINCT], THE MORALE OF OUR TROOPS AND OFFICERS IS VERY HIGH. AND THERE IS A REASON FOR THIS, BECAUSE THEY ARE FIGHTING TO DEFEND YOU.</p><p>[WORD INDISTINCT] THE FMLN TERRORISTS HAVE A VERY LOW MORALE, [WORDS INDISTINCT] MANY, BECAUSE THEY ARE NOW AWARE OF THEIR CASUALTIES AND [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>I WANT TO AVAIL MYSELF OF THIS OPPORTUNITY AND ON BEHALF OF THE ARMED FORCES, TO STRONGLY CONDEMN THOSE WHO THIS MORNING MASSACRED SIX JESUIT PRIESTS. WE REGRET AS WELL THE DEATHS OF OTHER CIVILIANS, INNOCENT PEOPLE WHO HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH THIS CONFLICT. WE ALSO REGRET THE DEATHS AMONG OUR ARMED FORCES.</p><p>IT IS ALSO IMPORTANT TO MENTION THAT THE GOVERNMENT, THE PEOPLE, AND THE ARMED FORCES GENERAL COMMAND ARE PROUD OF THE PROFESSIONAL WORK BEING DONE AT THE VARIOUS GARRISONS OF OUR ARMED FORCES.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE, ON BEHALF OF THE ARMED FORCES, WE ASK FOR YOUR SUPPORT. YOU MUST CONTINUE GOING TO WORK AND CONTINUE WORKING. IN CONCLUSION, I WANT TO THANK THE PEOPLE ONCE AGAIN FOR THEIR MORAL AND MATERIAL SUPPORT OF THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES AT SUCH A DIFFICULT TIME.</p></body></html>