<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0426"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0426"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0426</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0426 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 5 SEP 89 (REUTER) -- [REPORT] [RICHARD JACOBSEN] [TEXT] A SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT COMMISSION WILL MEET WITH LEFTIST REBELS BEFORE 15 SEPTEMBER IN A PRELIMINARY DIALOGUE TO END ALMOST 10 YEARS OF CIVIL WAR, IT WAS REPORTED TODAY BY A HIGH-RANKING OFFICIAL.</p><p>PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI WILL ANNOUNCE ON 7 SEPTEMBER THE CREATION OF A COMMISSION AND THE DATE AND PLACE OF THE TALKS WITH THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) REPRESENTATIVES, IT WAS STATED BY COMMUNICATIONS MINISTER MAURICIO SANDOVAL.</p><p>"THE MEETING WILL BE HELD BEFORE 15 SEPTEMBER," SANDOVAL TOLD REUTER.</p><p>SANDOVAL'S STATEMENTS WERE GIVEN AFTER FMLN COMMANDER ANA GUADALUPE MARTINEZ SAID TODAY IN MEXICO CITY THAT THE REBELS HAD ACCEPTED A GOVERNMENT PROPOSAL TO HOLD TALKS BEFORE 15 SEPTEMBER, THE ANNIVERSARY OF EL SALVADOR'S INDEPENDENCE.</p><p>"WE THINK THAT THE MEETING COULD BE HELD IN MEXICO CITY, AND ON 7 SEPTEMBER WE WILL ANNOUNCE A SERIES OF MEASURES TO FACILITATE THE DIALOGUE" -- THE FIRST BETWEEN CRISTIANI'S RIGHT-WING GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN, MARTINEZ SAID IN A NEWS CONFERENCE.</p><p>SHE DID NOT RULE OUT THE DECLARATION OF AN UNILATERAL CEASE-FIRE. "PERHAPS YES, PERHAPS NO," MARTINEZ ANSWERED WHEN ASKED ABOUT IT.</p><p>SANDOVAL SAID THAT THE TALKS COULD BE HELD IN COSTA RICA OR MEXICO.</p><p>"IT IS ALMOST SURE THAT THE TALKS WILL BE HELD IN MEXICO," HE SAID.</p><p>SANDOVAL SAID THAT THE PROGRESS ACHIEVED TOWARD THE TALKS WAS PROOF OF THE PLEDGE ASSUMED BY THE GOVERNMENT WHICH WAS SWORN IN ON 1 JUNE TO SOLVE A CONFLICT WHICH HAS COST EL SALVADOR MORE THAN 70,000 LIVES.</p><p>"SPECIFIC STEPS ARE BEING TAKEN IN THE SEARCH FOR PEACE," HE SAID.</p><p>GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS HAVE EMPHASIZED THAT THE FIRST ROUND OF TALKS WILL PROBABLY PREPARE THE GROUNDWORK FOR FUTURE, MORE SUBSTANTIAL, TALKS.</p><p>SANDOVAL DID NOT SAY WHO WOULD COMPRISE THE GOVERNMENT'S DIALOGUE COMMISSION BUT OFFICIALS HAD PREVIOUSLY SAID THAT THE ARMED FORCES AND THE CHURCH WOULD NOT BE REPRESENTED -- A PREVIOUS FMLN DEMAND.</p><p>"WE ACCEPT THAT THE GOVERNMENT COMMISSION THAT WILL ATTEND THE DIALOGUE BE COMPOSED AS THE GOVERNMENT WANTS," COMMANDER MARTINEZ SAID TODAY. "WE BELIEVE IT IS NEGATIVE FOR THE ARMY NOT TO PARTICIPATE IN A DIALOGUE WHERE THE WAR WILL BE DISCUSSED. IT WILL BE A MISTAKE FOR THE MILITARY NOT TO ATTEND THE MEETING."</p><p>VICE PRESIDENT FRANCISCO MERINO TOLD REPORTERS ON 4 SEPTEMBER THAT THE ARMED FORCES -- AND THE OPPOSITION POLITICAL PARTIES -- WOULD BE INCLUDED IN WHAT HE DESCRIBED AS A "SUPPORT COMMISSION" THAT WOULD PLAY AN ADVISORY ROLE IN THE TALKS.</p><p>THREE ROUNDS OF TALKS BETWEEN THE FMLN AND PRESIDENT JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE'S CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT, WHICH CONCLUDED ITS TERM ON 1 JUNE, FAILED TO ACHIEVE PROGRESS TOWARD THE SOLUTION OF A CIVIL WAR.</p><p>TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT OF A PEACE DIALOGUE OCCURRED AMID FIERCE CLASHES BETWEEN GOVERNMENT TROOPS AND REBELS IN SEVERAL PARTS OF EL SALVADOR.</p><p>A MAJOR CLASH OCCURRED IN EASTERN MORAZAN DEPARTMENT, WHERE THE REBELS KILLED 14 SOLDIERS AND 2 OFFICERS.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES ALSO SAID THEY HAD CAUSED "NUMEROUS" REBEL CASUALTIES DURING A CLASH WHICH OCCURRED NEAR CHILANGA, BUT THEY FAILED TO PROVIDE EXACT FIGURES.</p></body></html>