<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0124"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0124"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0124</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0124 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 14 MAR 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] MANUEL FELIU, CHAIRMAN OF THE INDUSTRY AND TRADE CONFEDERATION, HAS ESTIMATED THAT THE LOSSES CAUSED BY THE ACT OF ECONOMIC TERRORISM AGAINST OUR COUNTRY WILL BE MORE THAN $880 MILLION.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [FELIU] IT IS THE RESULT OF A TERRORIST BOYCOTT. IT IS THE BEGINNING OF A BOYCOTT. ALL CHILEANS MUST UNITE AGAINST THIS PROBLEM BECAUSE IT AFFECTS ALL OF US, NOT ONLY THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT ECONOMIC DAMAGE CAN THIS BOYCOTT CAUSE THE CHILEAN FRUIT INDUSTRY?</p><p>[FELIU] THE DAMAGE IS ENORMOUS. IT CAN AMOUNT TO MORE THAN $800 [AS HEARD] MILLION IN EXPENSES BEFORE THE END OF THIS EXPORTING SEASON. THIS HUGE LOSS WILL CREATE ALL TYPES OF PROBLEMS, NOT ONLY FOR THE FARMERS, EXPORTERS, AND FINANCIAL SECTOR, BUT ALSO FOR THE SEA AND AIR TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY, THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY, AND ALL SECTORS OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMY RELATED TO FRUIT EXPORT ACTIVITIES.</p><p>IN SHORT, IT CAUSES A SERIES OF HUGE PROBLEMS FOR THE WORKERS, THE BUSINESSMEN, AND ALL PEOPLE INVOLVED IN THOSE EXPORTS IN ONE WAY OR THE OTHER. [END RECORDING]</p><p>FELIU MADE THESE COMMENTS AT THE END OF A VISIT HE MADE TO THE PRODUCTION, TRADE, AND AGRICULTURAL UNIONS TO OFFER HIS SOLIDARITY TO MEMBERS OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR.</p></body></html>