<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0912"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0912"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0912</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0912 (GTE)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 1 DEC 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] DOMINICAN ORDER SUPERIOR JUAN CARLOS FERNANDEZ CID REPORTED IN MANAGUA TODAY THAT A SPANISH PRIEST AND FOUR WORKERS OF THE DOMINICAN ORDER -- THREE SALVADORANS AND ONE U.S. CITIZEN -- WERE ARRESTED IN SAN SALVADOR ON 30 NOVEMBER.</p><p>THE DOMINICAN SUPERIOR TOLD ACAN-EFE THAT THE SPANISH PRIEST CARLOS DIEZ ROJO; SALVADORANS JOSE SANTANA, THE DRIVER; ESTELA CRUZ BUSTAMANTE, DIRECTOR OF THE ORDER'S CHILD CARE CENTER; AND SANTIAGO DE JESUS VASQUEZ, DIRECTOR OF THE "22 APRIL" NEIGHBORHOOD CHOIR; AS WELL AS A U.S. VOLUNTEER CALLED SCOTT, WERE STILL UNDER ARREST IN SAN SALVADOR TODAY.</p><p>HE STATED THAT HE HAD CONTACTED SPANISH EMBASSY OFFICIALS IN SAN SALVADOR THIS MORNING, AND THEY CONFIRMED THAT THE SAN SALVADOR TREASURY POLICE HAD ARRESTED THE PRIEST DIEZ ROJO AND THE FOUR WORKERS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO FERNANDEZ CID, A GROUP OF POLICEMEN RAIDED THE PARISH CENTER IN CIUDAD CREDISA, A SAN SALVADOR NEIGHBORHOOD, AND ARRESTED THE FIVE PERSONS AFTER CONDUCTING A SEARCH.</p><p>THE PRIEST WAS VISITING SAN SALVADOR AND HAD ARRIVED IN THE CITY 2 DAYS BEFORE THE GUERRILLAS LAUNCHED THEIR OFFENSIVE ON 11 NOVEMBER.</p><p>A SPANISH EMBASSY OFFICIAL IN SAN SALVADOR IS PRESENTLY MAKING EFFORTS TO VISIT CARLOS DIEZ AND THE OTHER PERSONS ARRESTED, IN THE PRESENCE OF SALVADORAN OFFICIALS.</p><p>WITHOUT ANY OFFICIAL EXPLANATIONS, TWO PRIESTS OF THE DOMINICAN ORDER -- SPANISH CITIZEN MIGUEL ANDUEZ AND THE U.S. CITIZEN JAIME BARNEE -- WERE EXPELLED FROM EL SALVADOR 5 DAYS AGO.</p><p>ON 16 NOVEMBER, SIX JESUIT PRIESTS -- FIVE SPANIARDS AND ONE SALVADORAN -- AND TWO WOMEN WERE MURDERED BY 30 MEN IN UNIFORMS WHO WERE HEAVILY ARMED.</p></body></html>