<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0152"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0152"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0152</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0152 (BELLCORE)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 21 MAR 89 (BARRICADA) -- [EDITORIAL] [TEXT] FAR FROM ACHIEVING A TRUCE THE DAY THE RECENT PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS WERE HELD, A GENERAL INCREASE IN VIOLENCE THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE COUNTRY WAS THE RESULT OF THE CIVIL WAR IN WHICH THE UNITED STATES AND THE MILITARY HAVE SUBMERGED EL SALVADOR FOR THE PAST 9 YEARS. ON THE ONE HAND THERE WAS THE MILITARIZATION OF THE ELECTIONS THEMSELVES AND THE INDISCRIMINATE BOMBING AND MACHINEGUNNING OF THE CIVILIAN POPULATION, WHICH LEFT A TOLL OF HUNDREDS OF VICTIMS AS WELL AS THREE NEWSMEN MURDERED BY ARMY MEMBERS. ON THE OTHER HAND THERE WERE MILITARY ACTIONS BY THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN], WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, INFLICTED 150 CASUALTIES ON THE ARMY AND BROUGHT 90 PERCENT OF TRAFFIC TO A STANDSTILL.</p><p>THE VOTING STATISTICS PAINT A SIMILAR PICTURE: IN 29 OF THE 262 MUNICIPALITIES IN WHICH THE COUNTRY IS DIVIDED, THERE WAS NO VOTING AT ALL. OF THE 2.2 MILLION SALVADORANS WHO SHOULD BE ON THE VOTING LISTS, ONLY 1.8 MILLION WERE REGISTERED, AND WHILE 60 PERCENT OF THE VOTERS SHOWED UP AT THE POLLS FOR THE 1984 ELECTIONS, THIS FIGURE WAS COMPLETELY INVERTED THIS PAST 19 MARCH.</p><p>TODAY -- JUST LIKE BEFORE THE BALLOTING BEGAN -- PEACE, DEMOCRACY, AND SOCIAL HARMONY IN EL SALVADOR [WILL NOT BE REACHED] AS LONG AS THE UNITED STATES AND THE ARMY CONTINUE TO USURP THE POWER FORMALLY REPRESENTED BY A CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT, AND ANY PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS -- IN ADDITION TO YIELDING ANOTHER FARCE SIMILAR TO THE ONE THAT HAS JUST BEEN STAGED -- WILL ONLY RESULT IN AN ATMOSPHERE OF VIOLENCE THAT MIGHT EXTEND EVEN FURTHER AND REACH EVEN BLOODIER PROPORTIONS.</p><p>IF, ON THE CONTRARY, THOSE WHO REALLY HOLD POWER WERE INTERESTED IN A NEGOTIATED, PEACEFUL SOLUTION TO THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT, THEY WOULD AT LEAST BE TAKING THE FIRST SERIOUS STEPS TO MEET WITH THE OTHER BELLIGERENT FORCE: THE FMLN.</p><p>FOR THE TIME BEING, HOWEVER, THE NEW ELECTORAL FARCE HAS ACCOMPLISHED NOTHING BUT TO PROVIDE OVERWHELMING PROOF THAT IT IS ENTIRELY UNVIABLE AND INEFFECTIVE.</p></body></html>