<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0744"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0744"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0744</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0744 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 14 NOV 89 (CADENA REVOLUCIONARIA NACIONAL) -- [INTERVIEW WITH MERCEDES DEL CARMEN LETONA, FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT COMMANDER, BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [REPORTER] U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH HYPOCRITICALLY REGRETTED TODAY THAT THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] HAS TURNED THE REGION'S PEACE AGREEMENTS INTO A SENSELESS BLOODBATH WITH THE OFFENSIVE IT LAUNCHED ON 11 NOVEMBER. WHAT CAN YOU SAY ABOUT THIS?</p><p>[LETONA] I WOULD SAY THAT PRESIDENT BUSH'S REMARKS ARE VERY CYNICAL. HE SAID THAT A POLITICAL SOLUTION WAS BEING SOUGHT IN CENTRAL AMERICA AND WITH THIS ACTION, WE HAD BROKEN THE POLITICAL PATH AND SOUGHT OTHER OPTIONS. I THINK THE PEOPLE WHO BROKE THE PATH ARE THE UNITED STATES. WE MUST RECALL THAT WHILE WE WERE HOLDING TALKS IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA AND DEMANDING THE REMOVAL OF LA TANDONA [NAME GIVEN TO 1966 GRADUATING CLASS OF CAPTAIN GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY ACADEMY] AND DEMANDING JUSTICE AGAINST THE DEATH SQUADS IN ORDER TO FIND A POLITICAL SOLUTION AND PARTICIPATE IN ELECTIONS, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT APPROVED MORE AID FOR THE FASCIST SECTORS, THE VERY SECTORS THAT WERE IN FACT REPRESSING THE PEOPLE AND CARRYING OUT SUCH DRAMATIC AND HORRIBLE ACTIONS AS THE ONE PERPETRATED AGAINST THE FENASTRAS [SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION] BUILDING. THESE ACTIONS CONTINUE AND HAVE BEEN REPEATED EVERY DAY IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>THEREFORE, THE FIRST ONES TO BURY THE POLITICAL POSSIBILITY WERE THE UNITED STATES. THE FIRST ONES TO GIVE WEAPONS TO THE FASCISTS TO CONTINUE KILLING PEOPLE WERE THE UNITED STATES. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE CANNOT WAIT FOR THE FASCISTS TO KILL THEM ALL. THAT IS NO WAY TO ATTAIN PEACE, MUCH LESS DEMOCRACY IN EL SALVADOR. THAT IS WHAT THE UNITED STATES DID. RIGHT NOW WHEN WE ARE INVOLVED IN AN OFFENSIVE, WHO ARE THE ONES GUILTY OF GENOCIDE AGAINST THE PEOPLE? THE UNITED STATES. THOSE BOMBS AND THOSE ROCKETS THAT ARE FALLING ON CIVILIANS ARE BOMBS AND ROCKETS PROVIDED BY THE U.S. ADMINISTRATION TO THE SALVADORAN ARMY.</p><p>THE ONES WHO HAVE BLOCKED THE POSSIBILITY OF PEACE AND NEGOTIATION IN EL SALVADOR ARE THE UNITED STATES. WE WANTED TO REMOVE LA TANDONA AND THE GOVERNMENT'S DEATH SQUADS THROUGH POLITICAL MEANS BUT THAT WAS IMPOSSIBLE. SO, WE ARE DOING IT THROUGH THE COMBAT OF OUR FORCES AND WITH THE COOPERATION OF ALL THE PEOPLE.</p></body></html>