<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0801"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0801"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MADRID (SPAIN)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0801</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0801 (PRC)</p><p>MADRID (SPAIN), 18 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT SEEMS READY TO CARRY OUT THE INVESTIGATION REQUESTED BY THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT TO CLARIFY LAST THURSDAY'S MURDER OF EIGHT PEOPLE, SIX OF THEM JESUITS, OF WHOM FIVE WERE SPANIARDS. GOOD EVENING SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT GLORIA DEL CAMPO IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [DEL CAMPO] GOOD EVENING. SPANISH UNDER SECRETARY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS INOCENCIO ARIAS HAD A 40-MINUTE MEETING WITH PRESIDENT OF EL SALVADOR ALFREDO CRISTIANI, AND ALSO HAD A SEPARATE MEETING WITH THE DEPUTY FOREIGN MINISTER IN THE ABSENCE OF THE MINISTER.</p><p>ACCORDING TO INOCENCIO ARIAS, CRISTIANI WAS VERY CORDIAL AND ABSOLUTELY PREPARED TO LAUNCH AN INVESTIGATION AND HE SAID THE HE WANTS SPAIN, THE UNITED STATES, AND GREAT BRITAIN TO MAKE UP THE COMMISSION WHICH WILL INVESTIGATE THE MURDER OF THE SIX JESUITS AND THE TWO WOMEN WHO WORKED AT THE RESIDENCE OF THE JESUITS. ALTHOUGH IT IS STILL NOT KNOWN WHEN THE INVESTIGATION WILL START, CRISTIANI SAID IT WILL BE SOON AND THAT THE INVESTIGATION WILL BE RAPID, SERIOUS, AND IN-DEPTH. IT IS NOT KNOWN EITHER WHICH OFFICIALS OR EXPERTS WILL BE INVOLVED OR HOW LONG IT WILL LAST. CRISTIANI ALSO SAID THAT THE ARMED FORCES STAFF WANTS TO CLARIFY THE MATTER AND THAT HE DID NOT RULE OUT UNCONTROLLED ELEMENTS IN THE ARMY AS HAVING BEEN RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MURDERERS IN THIS MASSACRE. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>