<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0676"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0676"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0676</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0676 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 11 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [INTERVIEW WITH UNIDENTIFIED "SPOKESMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF OF THE ARMED FORCES" BY UNIDENTIFIED STATION REPORTER] [TEXT] [REPORTER] GOOD EVENING, SALVADORAN PEOPLE. RIGHT NOW, WE ARE IN THE STREETS OF SAN SALVADOR AND WE WANT TO BRING YOU AN BEXTREMELY IMPORTANT MESSAGE FROM A SPOKESMAN OF THE JOINTS CHIEFS OF STAFF OF THE ARMED FORCES. HE WILL PROVIDE US WITH IMPORTANT STATEMENTS ABOUT THE URGENT SITUATION PREVAILING IN THE CITY. COULD YOU TELL US WHERE THE MOST VIOLENT EVENTS HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN SAN SALVADOR CITY?</p><p>[SPOKESMAN] WE HAVE TOURED SOME PLACES WHERE NON-MILITARY POSITIONS HAVE BEEN HARASSED. THESE ARE THE VANGUARD POSTS OF THE MILITARY POSITIONS THAT DETECTED THE TERRORISTS WHEN THEY TRIED TO ATTACK. THAT IS HOW THESE CLASHES BEGAN.</p><p>THE MAIN AREAS WHERE THIS HARASSMENT HAS TAKEN PLACE ARE IN THE SOUTHERN AREA OF SAN SALVADOR, SPECIFICALLY IN THE AREAS OF LA GUADALUPE AND MEJICANOS, AS WELL AS IN THE AREA OF SANTA TECLA. HOWEVER, WE WANT TO REPORT, THAT THIS IS ONLY HARASSMENT. THE PEOPLE SHOULD REMAIN CALM, AS WE ARE WORKING FOR THEIR BENEFIT.</p><p>[REPORTER] AS OF NOW, WE HAVE HAD REPORTS THAT THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE WAS ATTACKED. WHAT CAN YOU TELL US ABOUT THAT?</p><p>[SPOKESMAN] WELL, AS I WAS SAYING EARLIER, THE TERRORIST CRIMINALS HARASSED THE VANGUARD POSTS OF THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE. THE INSTALLATIONS OF THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE, PER SE, HAVE NOT BEEN DAMAGED AT ALL, AND THE ARMED FORCES HAVE EVERYTHING UNDER CONTROL.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT IS YOUR MESSAGE TO THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE?</p><p>[SPOKESMAN] WE TELL OUR PEOPLE: REMAIN CALM, YOUR ARMED FORCES ARE WORKING TO SOLVE THIS SITUATION. WE REMIND YOU THAT IF YOU SEE ANY SUSPICIOUS MOVEMENT NEAR YOUR HOMES, YOU MUST REPORT IT TO THE NEAREST MILITARY UNIT. HAVE ON HAND THE TELEPHONE NUMBERS OF THE PUBLIC SECURITY CORPS, OR TELEPHONE NUMBER 123. THE COOPERATION THAT OUR PEOPLE CAN PROVIDE US IS OF VITAL IMPORTANCE SO THAT WE CAN SOLVE THIS SITUATION IMMEDIATELY. AS IT IS EVIDENT, THE HARASSMENT BEING WAGED BY THE CRIMINAL TERRORISTS IS NOT AGAINST THE MILITARY UNITS. WE MUST CONSIDER THIS IS JUST ONE MORE INDISCRIMINATE ATTACK THAT SEEKS A BLOODBATH [PASSAGE INDISTINCT].</p></body></html>