<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0153"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0153"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="EAST BERLIN (EAST GERMANY)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0153</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0153 (BELLCORE)</p><p>EAST BERLIN (EAST GERMANY), 22 MAR 89 (NEUES DEUTSCHLAND) -- [REPORT] [PETER KIRSCHEY] [TEXT] HIS NAME STANDS AT THE TOP OF THE HIT LIST OF THE COLOMBIAN DEATH SQUAD: OSCAR DUENAS, MEMBER OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE PATRIOTIC UNION (UP) AND CITY COUNSELOR OF TUNJA, NORTH OF THE CAPITAL OF BOGOTA.</p><p>IN A TALK DURING HIS VISIT TO BERLIN THIS WEEK, HE EMPHASIZED THE DRAMATIC SITUATION IN HIS HOME COUNTRY. IT IS CHARACTERIZED BY AN UNPRECEDENTED ANNIHILATION CAMPAIGN, WHICH IS AIMED MAINLY AT FUNCTIONARIES AND OFFICIALS OF THE PATRIOTIC UNION -- A MOVEMENT THAT INCLUDES COMMUNIST, LEFT-WING, AND OTHER DEMOCRATIC FORCES. MORE THAN 800 UP POLITICIANS HAVE ALREADY HAD TO PAY FOR THEIR SUPPORT FOR A DEMOCRATIC COLOMBIA WITH THEIR LIVES, OSCAR DUENAS NOTED.</p><p>THE COLOMBIAN PATRIOT SAID THAT THE ALL-POWERFUL NARCOTICS MAFIA, IN ALLIANCE WITH THE LARGE LANDOWNERS, RIGHT-WING MILITARY, AND PARTS OF THE OLIGARCHY ARE BEHIND ALL THESE ATTACKS. THEY FEAR FOR THEIR POWER AND ARE PREPARED TO USE ANY MEANS TO PRESERVE IT.</p><p>FROM HIS OWN EXPERIENCE, OSCAR DUENAS REPORTED HOW THE DEATH SQUAD PERSECUTES ITS OPPONENTS. A GROUP WHICH CALLS ITSELF "RAMBO" HAS WAYLAID HIM SEVERAL TIMES. HOWEVER, UP TO NOW HE HAS ALWAYS BEEN WARNED IN TIME. THERE IS ALWAYS THE DANGER OF HIS BEING SHOT AT FROM A WINDOW, A PASSING CAR, OR FROM BEHIND A BUSH. THIS IS WHY THE GOVERNMENT PROVIDES HIM -- AND OTHER UP POLITICIANS -- WITH BODYGUARDS AROUND THE CLOCK. "EVEN THOUGH THIS MEANS A PERMANENT THREAT, WE WILL CONTINUE TO FIGHT!" OSCAR DUENAS AFFIRMED.</p><p>ASKED ABOUT THE POSSIBILITIES OF A POLITICAL SOLUTION, THE CITY COUNSELOR OF TUNJA SEES AN OPPORTUNITY IF THE GOVERNMENT COOPERATES WITH ALL DEMOCRATS IN THE FIGHT AGAINST GANG TERRORISM AND DOES NOT TRY TO SPLIT UP THE MOVEMENT OF THE LEFT.</p></body></html>