<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0978"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0978"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0978</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0978 (SRI)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (RADIO CADENA CUSCATLAN) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY UNIDENTIFIED MODERATOR AND REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [CRISTIANI] AND AGAIN, BECAUSE THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS DID NOT WANT TO STATE THESE COUNTRIES BY NAME, I WILL REFRAIN MYSELF FROM DOING IT AT THIS TIME, BUT THEY ARE VERY OBVIOUS, WHO AND WHAT THEY [WORD INDISTINCT].</p><p>BUT I THINK OBVIOUSLY IT WOULD BE MUCH EASIER IF THE FMLN WOULD ACT RATIONALLY AND ACCEPT THAT THEY HAVE NO LONGER ANY RECOGNITION FOR WHAT THEY DO, AND THAT THEY HAVE BEEN CONDEMNED, AND NOT ONLY AS AN IRREGULAR FORCE OR GROUP. THEY HAVE NOW BEEN CONDEMNED AS BEING A TERRORIST GROUP, WHICH IS THE SECOND ASPECT OF THE THIRD POINT IN THE AGREEMENT. THEREFORE, MAYBE THEY SHOULD START THINKING ABOUT SOMETHING ELSE. MAYBE THE VIRGIN OF GUADALUPE, WHOSE ANNIVERSARY WE CELEBRATE TODAY, AND WHO IS THE GUARDIAN OF ALL THE AMERICAN COUNTRIES, WILL SHINE SOME LIGHT ON THESE IRRATIONAL PEOPLE. THEY MIGHT SEE THIS AS A VERY CLEAR SIGN THAT THEY CAN NO LONGER JUSTIFY OR LIE, OR TRY TO CONVINCE PEOPLE THAT WHAT THEY DO IS GOOD.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[CRISTIANI, IN ENGLISH] THAT IS NOT WHAT THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS ARE LOOKING FOR. THEY ARE LOOKING FOR A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEM AND ALL THEIR EFFORTS ARE DIRECTED IN THAT WAY.</p><p>[MODERATOR] ANA ARANDA FROM THE MIAMI HERALD.</p><p>[ARANDA, IN ENGLISH] [WORDS INDISTINCT] IF THE GOVERNMENT AT ANY POINT CONFRONTED NICARAGUA OR [WORDS INDISTINCT] WHETHER THE GOVERNMENT AS SUCH WAS TRULY INVOLVED IN SENDING WEAPONS TO THE FMLN?</p><p>[CRISTIANI, IN ENGLISH] WELL, HE WAS WATCHING SOME OF THE VIDEOTAPES THAT I TOOK. WE WERE WATCHING THEM WITH THE OTHER CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS. AFTER A FEW MINUTES, HE SAID HE HAD SOME TELEPHONE CALLS TO MAKE AND HE GOT UP AND LEFT. OBVIOUSLY HE COULD NOT JUSTIFY WHAT HE WAS SEEING AND WHAT THE OTHER PRESIDENTS WERE WITNESSING THERE ON THE TV SCREEN.</p><p>THERE WAS SOME CONFRONTATION WITH ORTEGA OBVIOUSLY, BUT I WILL, YOU KNOW, WILL SAY THAT I DID NOT MIND WHERE THE WAREHOUSE WAS OR WHERE THEY COME FROM. IT IS SIMPLY THE FACT THAT THEY WERE AT SOME POINT IN TIME IN NICARAGUA AND NICARAGUA WAS SENDING THEM OVER TO EL SALVADOR. WHETHER THEY CAME FROM THE SOVIET UNION OR WHETHER THEY BOUGHT THEM FROM SOMEWHERE ELSE, OR WHEREVER THEY CAME FROM, IT REALLY MAKES NO DIFFERENCE. WITHIN THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PEACE PLAN, THE PROBLEM IS THAT THEY ARE COMING THROUGH NICARAGUA WITH THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT, AND THAT IS A VIOLATION OF THE AGREEMENT.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[CRISTIANI, IN ENGLISH] WHAT COULD HE SAY? NO, HE CAME OUT TRYING TO PRODUCE SOME SORT OF DUST OVER THE ISSUE -- LIKE WE CALL IT HERE -- THROUGH HIS MINISTER OF FOREIGN RELATIONS. HE WAS ACCUSING COSTA RICA OF SENDING AID TO THE NICARAGUAN RESISTANCE. AND MAYBE HE THOUGHT TO DIVERT THE ATTENTION FROM THE SALVADORAN CASE BY TRYING TO SAY THAT COSTA RICA WAS SENDING WEAPONS TO THE NICARAGUAN RESISTANCE. THEN OBVIOUSLY HE ACCUSED EVERYBODY OF SENDING WEAPONS TO NICARAGUA.</p><p>THE POINT IS, FIRST OF ALL, HE DID NOT CONVINCE ANY OF THE OTHER FOUR PRESIDENTS. THAT IS FOR SURE. AND THERE WERE NO ARGUMENTS HE MADE IN FRONT OF THE PRESS OR AT ANY POINT IN TIME WHERE THEY DENIED THAT THEY HAVE BEEN HELPING THE FMLN. I MEAN, IT IS VERY CLEAR AND OBVIOUS THAT THEY HAVE HELPED THE FMLN NOT SINCE NOVEMBER 11. ALL THE WEAPONS THAT WERE ALREADY HERE BY NOVEMBER 11 ALSO CAME THROUGH NICARAGUA.</p><p>[MODERATOR] RICARDO CLEMENS FROM VISNEWS.</p><p>[CLEMENS, IN SPANISH] [WORDS INDISTINCT] CASE OF JENNIFER CASOLO THERE WAS A SERIES OF LEGISLATIVE ISSUES THAT ARE NOT VERY CLEAR AND THERE IS SOME KIND OF IMPASSE REGARDING HER TRIAL. WILL THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH HELP TO ACCELERATE THE TRIAL, OR WILL IT ISSUE SOME KIND OF PARDON OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT?</p><p>[CRISTIANI, IN ENGLISH] NO, THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH CANNOT INTERFERE WITH THE JUDICIAL PROCESS OF ANY PERSON IN THE COUNTRY. IT WOULD HAVE TO BE THE SUPREME COURT OR THE JUDICIARY THAT DEALS WITH THE PROBLEM. THEY HAVE TO DECIDE WHAT THE LAW IS AND WHAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW SHOULD BE. OUR POSITION IS THAT THE LAW SHOULD BE APPLIED IMPARTIALLY, AND EVERYTHING THAT THE JUDGE OR ANYBODY ELSE DOES IN THE STATE SHOULD BE DONE WITHIN THE LEGAL FRAMEWORK.</p><p>BUT WE HAVE NO POSSIBILITY OF INTERVENING IN THE JUDICIARY PROCESS. THERE IS A SEPARATION OF POWERS BETWEEN THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH AND THE JUDICIAL BRANCH.</p><p>[MODERATOR, IN SPANISH] THANK YOU, MR PRESIDENT. THANK YOU, GENTLEMEN. THANK YOU ALL.</p></body></html>