<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1240"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1240"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1240</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1240 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [INTERVIEW WITH PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY MODERATOR AND REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [MODERATOR] ROLANDO GONZALEZ, LOS ANGELES TIMES.</p><p>[GONZALEZ] MR. PRESIDENT, I WANT TO MAKE A QUESTION THAT WAS MADE IN SPANISH BEFORE AND IT'S RELATED ABOUT COLONEL OCHOA PEREZ. HE HAS BEEN A HARD-LINE MILITARY AND DON'T YOU THINK THAT HIS [WORDS INDISTINCT] GOT TO BE POSSIBLE? THIS IS ONE AND I GOT A SECOND ONE. CAN YOU TELL US IN ENGLISH WHAT'S GOING TO BE THE RELATION WITH THE NEW NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT AND WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT RECENT MACHINEGUN TRAFFIC OF THE GUERRILLAS?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] WELL, WITH THE FIRST CASE MY OPINION IS THAT ANYBODY THAT HAS ANY INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO THE ASSASSINATION OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS SHOULD -- INSTEAD OF SPECULATE WITH IT PUBLICLY -- SHOULD GO STRAIGHT TO THE COURT THAT IS IN CHARGE OF THE CASE AND GIVE ALL THE INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO HIM OR THAT HE IS KNOWLEDGEABLE OF, AND THEN HAVE THE JUDGE DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT.</p><p>I THINK THAT MERE SPECULATION IN PUBLIC IS SOMETHING THAT IS NOT GOOD FOR THE JUDICIAL PROCESS BECAUSE IT CREATES PROBLEMS FOR IT. SECONDLY, EVEN THOUGH HE WAS A HIGH-RANKING OFFICER, IN CASES LIKE THIS, IT IS NOT NECESSARILY THE OPINION OF A SPECIFIC MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES IS ONE WHICH IS TOTALLY TRUE OR TOTALLY FALSE [SENTENCE AS HEARD]. YOU CANNOT SIMPLY GO BY THAT AS A WAY TO SIMPLY STATE THAT HIS STATEMENTS ARE TRUE.</p><p>IT IS VERY INTERESTING TO SEE THAT WHEREAS BEFORE NO ONE REALLY WOULD BELIEVE COL. OCHOA, ALL OF A SUDDEN EVERYONE WANTS TO GIVE HIM ALL THE CREDIBILITY IN THIS CASE. I AM NOT SAYING THAT WHAT HE SAID IS TRUE OR UNTRUE. MY POINT IS THAT IT SHOULD NOT BE DEBATED PUBLICLY; THAT ANYBODY -- COL. OCHOA, MEMBERS OF THE JESUIT COMMUNITY, OR ANYBODY ELSE -- WHO HAS ANY INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO THE TRIAL SHOULD GO TO THE JUDGE AND GIVE HIM THAT INFORMATION BECAUSE THAT WOULD BE HELPING THE PROCESS AND NOT MERE SPECULATIONS IN PUBLIC.</p><p>WITH RESPECT TO THE RELATIONS WITH NICARAGUA, WE DISCUSSED THIS WITH ONE OF THE ADVISERS OF MRS. CHAMORRO DURING OUR VISIT AND WE DECIDED TO INITIATE [32-SECOND BREAK IN TRANSMISSION] PLANS AND, THEREFORE, WE ARE WILLING TO REINITIATE THE PROCESS. HER ADVISER WAS VERY CLEAR TO STATE THAT THEY WILL BY NO MEANS AID THE FMLN IN THAT RESPECT.</p><p>WE THINK THAT WHAT HAS BEEN HAPPENING BETWEEN THE 25TH OF FEBRUARY AND THE 25TH OF APRIL IS THAT THE FMLN THOUGHT THAT IT WAS TIME TO GET ALL THAT WAS LEFT IN NICARAGUA....[CORRECTS HIMSELF) OUT OF NICARAGUA BECAUSE THEY KNEW OF THE PROBLEMS THEY WOULD FACE WITH THE NEW GOVERNMENT, AND THAT THEY COULD NO LONGER GO ABOUT FREELY IN NICARAGUA WITH THEIR WEAPONS AND THEIR LOGISTIC SUPPORT. THEREFORE, THEY HAVE BEEN TRYING TO BRING THEM IN. IN THAT CASE THERE WAS A GROUP OF FMLN MEMBERS WHO WERE DETAINED IN HONDURAS WITH THE HELP OF THE HONDURAN AUTHORITIES, AND IT WAS OBVIOUS THAT THEY HAD BEEN SHIPPING WEAPONS BY LAND THROUGH HONDURAN TERRITORY, BUT THAT GROUP WAS DETAINED.</p><p>[MODERATOR, IN SPANISH] THANK YOU, MR. PRESIDENT; THANK YOU, MR. FOREIGN MINISTER. JOURNALISTS, THANK YOU.</p></body></html>