<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1034"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1034"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-31"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1034</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1034 (TRW)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 31 DEC 89 (TELEVISORA HONDURENA) -- [SPEECH] [HONDURAN PRESIDENT JOSE SIMEON AZCONA HOYO] [EXCERPTS] COUNTRYMEN: NOW THAT THE NEW YEAR IS JUST MOMENTS AWAY, WE APPEAR BEFORE THE NATION, AS WE HAVE DONE IN THE PREVIOUS YEARS OF OUR ADMINISTRATION, TO EXPRESS OUR MOST SINCERE WISHES FOR THE PERSONAL WELL-BEING OF ALL HONDURAN PEOPLE. OUR GREATEST WISH IS FOR EACH INDIVIDUAL IN THE NATION, WITHOUT EXCEPTION, TO ENJOY WELL- BEING AND PEACE AT HOME. WE CAN AFFIRM THAT DURING OUR TENURE WE HAVE CONSTANTLY STRIVEN TOWARD THE HIGHER GOALS OF COLLECTIVE PROGRESS AND WELL-BEING IN THE SPECIFIC SITUATIONS WE HAVE FACED DURING THESE 4 YEARS OF GOVERNMENT -- SITUATIONS THAT ARE NATURAL TO A DEVELOPING COUNTRY LIKE OURS.</p><p>ON 25 JANUARY 1990 WE WILL PRESENT TO CONGRESS A REPORT SUMMING UP THE ACHIEVEMENTS MADE DURING OUR ADMINISTRATION. THUS, ALL THE PEOPLE WILL BE TRUTHFULLY INFORMED OF OUR ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND OF THE PROJECTS THAT HAVE BEEN UNDERTAKEN SO THAT THE HONDURAN PEOPLE CAN DEVELOP MATERIAL AND SOCIAL CONDITIONS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE HISTORICAL EVOLUTION TO WHICH WE ASPIRE, BOTH AS INDIVIDUALS AND AS A STATE. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>WE HAVE EXPRESSED OUR DESIRE FOR PEACE AT SIX CENTRAL AMERICAN SUMMITS, WHERE WE DEFENDED THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESSES AND CONDEMNED ANY FORM OF TOTALITARIANISM AS WELL AS THE TERRORIST ACTIONS THAT HAVE CAUSED MANY DEATHS AND BROUGHT SORROW TO THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PEOPLE.</p><p>I AM PROUD TO SAY THAT THE TELA SUMMIT HAS CONTRIBUTED TO THE SEARCH FOR PEACE AND DEMOCRACY IN CENTRAL AMERICA, ESPECIALLY IN THOSE COUNTRIES PLAGUED BY VIOLENCE.</p><p>WE HAVE ALWAYS MAINTAINED THAT GREAT SACRIFICES ARE NECESSARY IF WE ARE TO MAKE SOCIAL PROGRESS, AND WE HAVE CONSTANTLY WORKED TO ESTABLISH THE NECESSARY CONDITIONS FOR THE COUNTRY'S DEVELOPMENT.</p><p>OUR ACHIEVEMENTS ARE LASTING AND HAVE GIVEN THE COUNTRY BETTER PROSPECTS FOR THE FUTURE. THAT HAS BEEN OUR MAIN OBJECTIVE. WE DID NOT RESORT TO DEMAGOGUERY, AND WE SPOKE THE TRUTH -- DURING THE ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN AND LATER AS THE LEADER OF THE NATION'S DESTINY -- SO AS NOT TO CREATE FALSE EXPECTATIONS AMONG THE PEOPLE. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>I WANT TO REASSERT THAT ONCE I STEP DOWN FROM THE PRESIDENCY, I WILL CONTINUE FROM THE PRIVATE SECTOR TO STRIVE FOR THE UNITY OF THE HONDURAN PEOPLE SO THAT WITH EFFORT AND WORK WE MAY IMPROVE OUR LIVING STANDARDS. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>FINALLY I WANT TO EXPRESS MY SINCERE DESIRE FOR SUCCESS -- FOR THE WELL-BEING OF THE FATHERLAND -- TO RAFAEL LEONARDO CALLEJAS ROMERO, WHO WILL TAKE OFFICE AS PRESIDENT ON 27 JANUARY L990. THANK YOU VERY MUCH.</p></body></html>