<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0250"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0250"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0250</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0250 (ADS)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 16 JUN 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] TODAY, THE CHILEAN MILITARY GOVERNMENT HAS REPORTED THE EXISTENCE OF A SELECTIVE TERRORIST PLAN TO ATTACK GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, A PLAN THAT COULD BE LINKED TO THE SHINING PATH, A PERUVIAN TERRORIST GROUP.</p><p>GENERAL OSCAR VARGAS, THE MINISTER SECRETARY GENERAL OF GOVERNMENT, REPORTED ON THIS PLAN DURING A 2-HOUR CABINET MEETING THAT WAS CHAIRED BY CHILEAN PRESIDENT GENERAL AUGUSTO PINOCHET.</p><p>THE MINISTER SAID THAT THERE ARE CLEAR INDICATIONS OF SUCH A PLAN, EMPHASIZING THAT THE CIVILIANS HAVE GREAT RESPONSIBILITY BECAUSE THE STRUGGLE AGAINST THE SUBVERSION CANNOT BE CONDUCTED WITHOUT THE ASSISTANCE OF CIVILIANS.</p><p>GEN VARGAS POINTED OUT THAT THE RECENT ATTACKS ON ARMED FORCES AND THE SECURITY SERVICES PERSONNEL, THE ROBBERY OF CARS -- ACCORDING TO THE POLICE, A MILITARY TRUCK AND 18 PRIVATE VEHICLES HAVE BEEN STOLEN -- AND THE STEALING OF CAR LICENSE PLATES AT THE MUNICIPALITIES ARE A CLEAR INDICATION THAT THESE GROUPS ARE ABOUT TO BEGIN THEIR ACTIVITIES.</p><p>THIS WEEK, SEVERAL UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUALS ATTACKED AN ARMY NON- COMMISSIONED OFFICER, WHO IS A MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER (CNI, THE SECRET POLICE) AND WHO WAS SERIOUSLY INJURED, AND LAST WEEK A RETIRED AIR FORCE OFFICER WAS MURDERED.</p><p>THE MINISTER ADDED THAT A COORDINATION AMONG ALL THE TERRORIST GROUPS THAT ARE OPERATING IN THE AREA HAS BEEN NOTICED, ESPECIALLY BY THE SHINING PATH. THIS MATTER WAS DISCUSSED BY THE PERUVIAN DEFENSE MINISTER IN A SPEECH HE MADE IN LIMA LAST WEEK.</p><p>CONCERNING THE MEASURES TAKEN, GEN VARGAS SAID: "ALL GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIES HAVE BEEN INSTRUCTED TO TAKE CARE."</p><p>GEN VARGAS CATEGORICALLY DENIED THAT THE POSSIBILITY THAT GENERAL AUGUSTO PINOCHET COULD RUN IN THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS SCHEDULED FOR 14 DECEMBER 1989 WAS DISCUSSED IN THE CABINET MEETING HELD TODAY AT THE LA MONEDA PRESIDENTIAL PALACE.</p><p>FOR HIS PART AND IN A NEWS CONFERENCE, SERGIO ONOFRE JARPA, A RIGHTWING PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE AND THE PRESIDENT OF THE PROGOVERNMENT NATIONAL RENEWAL PARTY, SAID THAT HIS NOMINATION "WOULD NOT MAKE ANY SENSE IF PINOCHET RUNS FOR THE SAME POLITICAL SECTOR."</p><p>JARPA REITERATED THAT IF THE INCUMBENT, WHO HAS BEEN PRESIDENT SINCE 1973, WANTS TO RUN FOR PRESIDENT, "IT WILL BE NECESSARY TO REFORM THE 1980 CONSTITUTION" BECAUSE ARTICLE 25 PREVENTS THE CHILEAN PRESIDENT FROM SEEKING RE-ELECTION.</p></body></html>