<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0900"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0900"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0900</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0900 (GTE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 29 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] THE FIGHTING IN THE SAN SALVADOR RESIDENTIAL AREAS BRINGS UP SUBSTANTIAL DIFFERENCES IN THE FORM AND CONTENT OF THE WAR IN EL SALVADOR WHEN THE FIGHTING TAKES PLACE IN THE NEIGHBORHOODS OF THE POOR AND WHEN THE FIGHTING TAKES PLACE IN THE NEIGHBORHOODS OF THE RICH. TODAY, WHEN THE FIGHTING TOOK PLACE IN VARIOUS PARTS OF THE CAPITAL CITY, INCLUDING PLACES SUCH AS THE ESCALON, SAN BENITO, SAN FRANCISCO, AND GENERAL ARCE RESIDENTIAL AREAS WHERE U.S. DIPLOMATIC PERSONNEL LIVE, WHERE THE MILITARY OFFICERS AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS HAVE THEIR RESIDENCES, WHERE THE SALVADORAN HIGH SOCIETY HAS ITS RESIDENCES, THEN THE REPERCUSSIONS ARE VERY DIFFERENT.</p><p>U.S. GOVERNMENT SPOKESMEN REACTED QUICKLY AND WITHOUT DELAY. MARLIN FITZWATER, JAMES BAKER, THE STATE DEPARTMENT, AMBASSADOR WALKER, EVERYONE WAS VERY WORRIED OVER THE FATE OF U.S. PERSONNEL. THEY EXPRESSED ANGRY WORDS AGAINST THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN]. IF THERE IS SOMEONE IN THE WORLD THAT IS WELL INFORMED OF THE WAR SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR, IT IS PRECISELY THE PENTAGON, THE STATE DEPARTMENT, AND THE U.S. EMBASSY, BECAUSE THEY HAVE FINANCED AND GIVEN ADVICE TO THE SALVADORAN ARMY.</p><p>IT IS NOT OUR PRESENCE IN THE SAN SALVADOR RESIDENTIAL AREAS THAT JEOPARDIZES U.S. PERSONNEL. ON THE CONTRARY, IT IS THE U.S. PRESENCE, THE U.S. MEDDLING IN EL SALVADOR THAT IS JEOPARDIZING ITS STAFF. THEY CANNOT ASK US TO GET OUT OF SAN SALVADOR SO THAT THE AMERICANS WILL NOT BE TRAPPED IN THE CROSSFIRE. IT IS THE U.S. INTERVENTION IN THE COUNTRY THAT MUST COME TO AN END, SO THAT WE SALVADORANS WILL BE ABLE TO SETTLE OUR PROBLEMS AMONG OURSELVES. THIS IS OUR LAND, OUR FATHERLAND.</p><p>THE WAR WAS IMPOSED BY THE INJUSTICES, THE SLAUGHTERS, THE DICTATORSHIPS, AND TO A GREAT EXTENT, BY THE AMERICANS WHO SPEND $1.4 MILLION DAILY IN THIS WAR. THIS IS A CRUCIAL MOMENT FOR EL SALVADOR. THAT IS WHY WE DEMAND THAT THE U.S. ADMINISTRATION, THAT IS, THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION, THE U.S. CONGRESS, AND THE U.S. PEOPLE CAREFULLY THINK THIS OVER AND ACT SENSIBLY SO THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO PUT AN END TO THIS WAR. IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT -- THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION -- THINK THIS OVER AND PROMOTE CHANGES IN ITS POLICY TOWARD EL SALVADOR, AND THUS MAKE FEASIBLE A SOLUTION TO THE CONFLICT.</p><p>WE HAVE PUBLICLY AND OFFICIALLY SAID, AS ONE OF OUR MANY GESTURES OF GOOD WILL, THAT THE FMLN WILL NOT ATTACK U.S. DIPLOMATIC INSTALLATIONS OR PERSONNEL IN EL SALVADOR. IN ADDITION, WE HAVE INSTRUCTED OUR UNITS, OUR FIGHTERS, AND COMMANDO GROUPS NOT TO ATTACK DIPLOMATIC SITES, BECAUSE NATURALLY THEY ARE NOT MILITARY TARGETS FOR THE FMLN. WE HOPE THAT IN THE SAME MANNER, BOTH THE U.S. EMBASSY AS WELL AS THE OTHER DIPLOMATIC REPRESENTATIVES WILL INSTRUCT THEIR SECURITY GUARDS SO THEY WILL NOT BECOME INVOLVED IN THE FIGHTING, THUS PREVENTING CONFUSION THAT WE WOULD ALL REGRET.</p><p>THE U.S. GOVERNMENT CAN PLAY A POSITIVE ROLE IN DEFINING THE CONFLICT. THE U.S. CONGRESS AND OTHER INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS, SUCH AS THE UNITED NATIONS AND THE OAS, ARE ALREADY DISCUSSING THE TRUE SITUATION OF OUR COUNTRY. WE BELIEVE THIS IS THE MOMENT TO CHANGE POLICIES. THE U.S. GOVERNMENT CANNOT CONTINUE TO FINANCE AND SUPPORT A REGIME WHICH IS BOMBING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION IN THE CITIES, A REGIME WHICH MURDERS PRIESTS, WHICH PUBLICLY THREATENS THE BISHOPS. THE U.S. GOVERNMENT MUST USE ITS GOOD JUDGMENT AND CONTRIBUTE TO THE END OF THE WAR, AND NOT CONTINUE TO SUPPORT A FASCIST REGIME THAT IS NOT ACCEPTABLE IN OUR FATHERLAND, EL SALVADOR.</p></body></html>