<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0328"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0328"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0328</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0328 (BBN)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 3 AUG 89 (CADENA AUDIO VIDEO) -- [REPORT] [MIRIAM MERCADO] [EXCERPTS] RAMON CUSTODIO LOPEZ, PRESIDENT OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS DEFENSE COMMITTEE [CODEH] HAS PREDICTED THAT THE TELA SUMMIT WILL BE CHAOTIC BECAUSE, IN HIS OPINION, THE HONDURAN AND SALVADORAN GOVERNMENTS WILL INTERFERE. THE CODEH PRESIDENT ALSO REVEALED THAT THE BATTALION 3-16'S NEW NAME IS THE COUNTERINSURGENCY BATTALION AND ITS COMMANDER IS COLONEL ALBERTO ANDINO BENITEZ. CUSTODIO SAID THIS DURING THE NEWS CONFERENCE HE HELD 2 AUGUST.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CUSTODIO] WE HAVE CALLED THIS NEWS CONFERENCE BECAUSE WE WANT TO WARN THE PEOPLE, THE FOREIGN JOURNALISTS WHO ARE HERE, AND THE OTHER CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS ABOUT THE ATMOSPHERE OF INSECURITY WHICH AFFLICTS THE HONDURAN PEOPLE.</p><p>FIRST OF ALL, WE WILL MENTION THE ASSASSINATIONS WHICH OCCURRED IN JULY AT SAN PEDRO SULA: EDUARDO HERRERA, SALOMON VALLECILLO, AND DR RAMON ROBERTO GARAY. WE BELIEVE THAT THE ASSASSINATIONS WERE PERPETRATED BY PROFESSIONALS SO WE WOULD LIKE A JUDGE TO CALL THE NEW COMMANDER OF BATTALION 3-16 -- NOW CALLED COUNTERINSURGENCY BATTALION -- COLONEL ALBERTO ANDINO BENITEZ TO TESTIFY. THERE ARE REPORTS THAT A MEMBER OF THE 3-16TH BATTALION CONTACTED SALOMON VALLECILLO PRIOR TO HIS DEATH.</p><p>LIKEWISE, I WANT TO MENTION HOW THE CITIZENRY IS EXPOSED TO POLICE BRUTALITY. THERE IS THE CASE OF JUSTO PASTOR ESCOBAR SILVA, WHO WAS ASSASSINATED BY A FUSEP [PUBLIC SECURITY FORCES] AGENT WHO IS NOW SERVING A PRISON SENTENCE.</p><p>FURTHERMORE, PEOPLE FEEL INSECURE IN THE COUNTRY, AND I WILL MENTION A CASE WHICH OCCURRED 3 WEEKS AGO. DR MARCO ANTONIO BOGRAN WAS TAKEN WITH ALL HIS HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYEES TO THE DNI [DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL INVESTIGATION] AND HELD FROM 0800 TO 1500. HE WAS NOT ALLOWED TO CALL HIS LAWYER OR HIS RELATIVES, AND HE WAS HELD IN ISOLATION. HE WAS NATURALLY AFRAID THE WORST WOULD HAPPEN. NO ONE EXPLAINED ANYTHING UNTIL THE END. HE WAS TOLD THAT SOMEONE HAD REPORTEDLY MADE A SUBVERSIVE PHONE CALL FROM HIS HOUSE. THIS MEANS THAT HIS TELEPHONE IS BEING ILLEGALLY TAPPED BECAUSE NO ONE HERE HAS THE RIGHT TO CONTROL ANYONE'S CALLS. THE MILITARY MEN IN CHARGE OF HONDUTEL [HONDURAN TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENTERPRISE] ILLEGALLY ABUSE THEIR POWER WHEN THEY HEAR AND CONTROL TELEPHONE CALLS BECAUSE THIS SHOULD BE HANDLED BY THE CIVILIAN AUTHORITIES. [PASSAGE OMITTED] [END RECORDING]</p><p>COLONEL MANUEL ENRIQUE SUAREZ BENAVIDES, CHIEF OF THE ARMED FORCES PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICE, HAS REACTED TO CUSTODIO LOPEZ' STATEMENT.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [COL SUAREZ] I HAVE HEARD PART OF RAMON CUSTODIO'S NEWS CONFERENCE ON CODEH FOREIGN POLICY, AND WE OBSERVED HIS ANIMOSITY TOWARD THE CONTRAS AND HIS AFFECTION FOR THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT IN EL SALVADOR. WE THOUGHT HE ONLY HANDLED HUMAN RIGHTS BUT WE SEE HE ALSO DELVES IN FOREIGN POLICY. HOWEVER, THIS IS NOT THE MAIN ISSUE.</p><p>I WANT TO REFER TO THE FACT THAT YEARS AGO WE PUBLICLY PROVED THAT BATTALION 3-16, WHICH HE MENTIONED SO MANY TIMES, HAD BEEN DISMANTLED SO THE UNIT NO LONGER EXISTS. NEVERTHELESS, HE SEEMS TO HAVE FORGOTTEN THIS, OR HE MAY BE INTENTIONALLY FORGETTING THIS. THE UNIT DISAPPEARED BUT THE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE BATTALION HE MENTIONS DOES EXIST AND ITS COMMANDER, WHICH HE MENTIONS, IS A MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES. IN OTHER WORDS, HE HAS ABSOLUTELY NOTHING TO DO WITH THE ACTIVITIES THAT BATTALION 3-16 REPORTEDLY CARRIED OUT. IF CUSTODIO WANTS IT, WE CAN SEND HIM A COPY OF THE AGREEMENTS TO DISMANTLE BATTALION 3-16 AND TO APPOINT THE CURRENT COMMANDER OF THE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE BATTALION, WHICH HAS EXISTED FOR MANY YEARS. THAT IS ALL. I WANTED TO CLARIFY THIS AND I HOPE DR CUSTODIO IS MORE OBJECTIVE IN HIS STATEMENTS. I SOMETIMES BELIEVE THAT THE PROBLEM OF BEING ON ONE SIDE [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE MIND.</p><p>[REPORTER] COLONEL, WHEN WILL THE ARMED FORCES BE ABLE TO GIVE THE HONDURAN PEOPLE EXACT INFORMATION ON THE LATEST PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN REPORTED MISSING IN OUR COUNTRY?</p><p>[COL SUAREZ] EXCUSE ME, I CAN HARDLY HEAR YOU.</p><p>[REPORTER] I ASKED: WHEN CAN THE HONDURAN PEOPLE HAVE EXACT INFORMATION ON THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN REPORTED MISSING IN THE COUNTRY?</p><p>[COL SUAREZ] LOOK, WE BELIEVE THAT WE WILL SHORTLY, AND I AM TALKING ABOUT A SHORT TIME, HAVE ENOUGH INFORMATION FOR THE HONDURAN PEOPLE ON THE PERSONS YOU HAVE MENTIONED BECAUSE THE INVESTIGATIONS CONTINUE. THE POLICE ARREST PEOPLE BASED ON THE SUSPICION OR HARD, RATIONAL EVIDENCE THAT THEY ARE INVOLVED IN CRIMINAL ACTIONS. I BELIEVE YOU WILL SOON HAVE ENOUGH INFORMATION ON THE PERSONS WHO HAVE BEEN ARRESTED BY THE POLICE. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>