<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0232"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0232"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN JOSE (COSTA RICA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0232</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0232 (ADS)</p><p>SAN JOSE (COSTA RICA), 2 JUN 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] GENERAL COMMAND HAS AGREED TO "CONTINUE" THE DIALOGUE WITH THE NEW SALAVADORAN GOVERNMENT, WHICH WAS SWORN IN YESTERDAY. THE FMLN ALSO PROPOSES CHANNELS TO FOLLOW FOR STARTING THE DIALOGUE.</p><p>SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI OF THE RIGHT-WING NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA) YESTERDAY PROPOSED TO THE GUERRILLAS THAT THEY BEGIN A DIALOGUE TO FIND A POLITICAL SOLUTION THAT WILL END THE ARMED CONFLICT IN THAT NATION.</p><p>A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION "CAN LEAD TO PEACE IN EL SALVADOR," THE FMLN ASSERTED IN A COMMUNIQUE ISSUED TODAY IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, AND SIGNED BY COMMANDERS FRANCISCO JOVEL, SHAFIK JORGE HANDAL, SALVADOR SANCHEZ CEREN, EDUARDO SANCHO, AND JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS.</p><p>THE FMLN PROPOSES "COORDINATING A CEASE-FIRE WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF AN OVERALL NEGOTIATION OF THE CONFLICT," WITHOUT TRYING TO "APPLY THE SAME MEANS USED IN THE CASE OF THE NICARAGUAN CONTRAS."</p><p>IN EXCHANGE, THE REBELS DEMAND "THE TRIAL OF FORMER MAJOR ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON AND ALL THOSE INVOLVED IN MSGR OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO'S MURDER," AS WELL AS "THE COMPLETE EXCLUSION" OF D'AUBUISSON FROM ANY GOVERNMENT POSITION. D'AUBUISSON, WHO HAS DENIED ANY INVOLVEMENT IN THE SALVADORAN ARCHBISHOP'S ASSASSINATION, FOUNDED ARENA, WHICH WON THE 19 MARCH PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS.</p><p>THE GUERRILLAS DEMAND "THE DISBANDMENT OF THE DEATH SQUADS." THEY ALSO WANT THE GOVERNMENT NOT TO PROCEED WITH THE CREATION OF THE PATRIOTIC CIVIL DEFENSE GROUPS. THE REBELS REQUEST "THE IMMEDIATE RELEASE" OF LABOR LEADERS, MASS MOVEMENT ACTIVISTS, AND DETAINED POLITICAL PRISONERS, AND THEY DEMAND THAT MURDERS, KIDNAPPINGS, AND ALL OTHER FORMS OF REPRESSION AGAINST THE OPPOSITION PARTIES CEASE.</p><p>THE COMMUNIQUE STATES THAT THE REBELS ARE WILLING TO AGREE TO A CEASE-FIRE AGREEMENT "WHEN IT IS AGREED UPON AND IMPLEMENTED UNDER INTERNATIONAL SUPERVISION," AS WELL AS TO A MULTILATERAL CUTBACK OF MILITARY SUPPLIES "OF ANY KIND TO ALL THE CENTRAL AMERICAN GOVERNMENTS AND GROUPS INVOLVED IN A CONFLICT."</p><p>THE FMLN COMMAND PLEDGES THAT ONCE THE DIALOGUE HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED, IT WILL "REFRAIN FROM ATTACKING POLITICAL LEADERS OF THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT" AND FROM ENFORCING NATIONWIDE TRANSPORTATION STOPPAGES. THE FMLN OFFERS TO "RESPECT THE LIVES AND LIBERTY" OF POLITICAL AND MILITARY LEADERS' RELATIVES, AS WELL AS TO "SUSPEND" THE USE OF CAR BOMBS IN THE CITIES.</p><p>THE GUERRILLAS ALSO COMMIT THEMSELVES TO RESPECTING "U.S. PERSONNEL AND INSTALLATIONS IN EL SALVADOR" AND TO SUSPENDING ATTACKS ON THE ELECTRICAL SYSTEM AND ON URBAN SHOPPING CENTERS.</p><p>DURING THE FIRST PHASE OF TALKS, THE GUERRILLAS POINT OUT, THE POLITICAL PARTIES NOT PARTICIPATING IN THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA) GOVERNMENT COULD PROMOTE AND ARRANGE THE DIALOGUE UNTIL "A DIRECT NEGOTIATION BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN" IN PLACES AND ON DATES "MUTUALLY AGREED UPON" IS ACHIEVED.</p><p>THE INSURGENT LEADERSHIP WARNS THAT IF A DIALOGUE BETWEEN BOTH PARTIES DOES NOT TAKE PLACE, THE INAUGURATION OF THE ARENA GOVERNMENT WILL MEAN "THE HEIGHTENING AND PROLONGATION OF THE WAR IN EL SALVADOR."</p><p>THE FMLN COMMUNIQUE ALSO PROPOSES THAT AGRARIAN REFORM BE CONTINUED. THE REBELS ALSO WANT THE NATIONALIZATION OF BANKING AND OF FOREIGN TRADE, UNRESTRICTED FREEDOM OF INFORMATION, AND RESPECT FOR THE COMMITMENT MADE BY THE DUARTE ADMINISTRATION TO "EVACUATE THE WOUNDED AND MAIMED GUERRILLAS" AND TO RESPECT THE LIVES OF RELATIVES OF THE LEADERS OF MASS MOVEMENTS, OPPOSITION PARTIES, AND THE FMLN.</p></body></html>