<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0907"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0907"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0907</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0907 (GTE)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 1 DEC 89 (PRAVDA) -- [COMMENTARY] [PAVEL BOGOMOLOV] [TEXT] JUDGING BY NEWS AGENCY REPORTS, THE DEVELOPMENT OF EVENTS IN EL SALVADOR HAS REACHED AN EXTREMELY DANGEROUS POINT. PRESIDENT CRISTIANI'S REFUSAL TO RESPOND TO THE INSURGENTS' RECENT CEASE- FIRE PROPOSAL HAS RESULTED IN A FRESH OUTBREAK OF BLOODSHED.</p><p>HAVING REJECTED OUT OF HAND LAST WEEK THE VERY IDEA OF THE RESUMPTION OF TALKS WITH THE FARABUNDO MARTI LIBERATION MOVEMENT, THE GOVERNMENT HAS MADE NO SECRET OF ITS INTENTION OF QUICKLY DRIVING THE GUERRILLAS BACK INTO THE MOUNTAINS USING U.S. MILITARY SUPPLIES. "ELITE" ARMY BATTALIONS HAD ALREADY PREPARED FOR PUNITIVE ASSAULTS. BUT WHAT HAPPENED? THE REGIME'S GAMBLE ON MILITARY FORCE PROVED FUTILE. THE INSURGENTS REGROUPED THEIR FORCES, BROUGHT UP RESERVES, AND STRUCK A POWERFUL NEW BLOW.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN DRAMA IS INCREASINGLY SHARPLY AT VARIANCE WITH THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL CLIMATE. REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED NATIONS, THE OAS, THE EEC, THE VATICAN, FRANCE, AND A NUMBER OF OTHER COUNTRIES AND ORGANIZATIONS ARE NOW STRESSING THE ACUTE NEED TO URGE THE WARRING SIDES IN EL SALVADOR TO REACH A PEACEFUL SETTLEMENT BASED ON MUTUAL COMPROMISE. AND IT IS A VERY GREAT PITY THAT SUCH AN APPEAL HAS NOT COME FROM THAT CAPITAL WHICH THE SALVADORAN AUTHORITIES HEED ABOVE ALL OTHERS -- WASHINGTON.</p><p>ATTENTION IS DRAWN TO THE URGENT EVACUATION OF U.S. CITIZENS FROM EL SALVADOR THAT WAS ANNOUNCED YESTERDAY. I RECOGNIZE THAT IN THE CONDITIONS OF AN ARMED CONFLICT THIS IS A NECESSARY STEP. BUT IT IS NO SECRET THAT IN THE RECENT PAST SUCH ACTIONS BY THE U.S. ADMINISTRATION WERE AN OMINOUS SYMPTOM OF THE PREPARATION OF OVERTLY INTERVENTIONIST PLANS.</p><p>END THE BLOODSHED -- THAT IS THE PRIORITY TASK TODAY. AND THE RESTORATION OF THE DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE INSURGENTS THAT WAS BROKEN OFF SHOULD BE THE FIRST STEP TOWARD THAT.</p></body></html>