<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0326"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0326"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0326</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0326 (BBN)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 4 AUG 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] POLICE REPORTED TODAY THAT RENE LOPEZ, AN IMMIGRATION OFFICIAL AND LEADER OF THE RULING CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY [PDC], WAS SHOT TO DEATH AFTER HE WAS KIDNAPPED BY UNIDENTIFIED MEN.</p><p>THE AUTHORITIES DISCLOSED TODAY THAT LOPEZ, WHO WORKED AT THE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT'S IMMIGRATION DEPARTMENT, WAS KIDNAPPED ON 2 AUGUST AND HIS BODY WAS FOUND IN SOUTHERN GUATEMALA CITY TODAY.</p><p>LOPEZ' DEATH IS ONE MORE PDC LEADER MURDERED. DANILO BARILLAS, ANOTHER PDC LEADER, WAS KILLED ON 1 AUGUST, APPARENTLY BY EXTREME RIGHTIST GROUPS.</p><p>SO FAR, IT IS NOT KNOWN IF THE TWO KILLINGS ARE CONNECTED BECAUSE THE AUTHORITIES HAVE REMAINED SILENT ABOUT THIS CASE WHICH WAS NOT DISCLOSED UNTIL TODAY.</p><p>UNOFFICIAL SOURCES NOTED THAT IT IS BELIEVED THAT THE TWO LEADERS KNEW TOO MANY DETAILS AND POSSIBLY NAMES OF PEOPLE INVOLVED IN COCAINE TRAFFICKING.</p><p>HOWEVER, LOPEZ' RELATIVES REJECTED THAT HIS MURDER HAD ANY CONNECTION WITH THE DRUG TRAFFICKING DISCOVERED AT THE AIRPORT THIS WEEK.</p><p>SECURITY FORCES FOUND 22 KG OF COCAINE IN A SUITCASE OWNED BY JOSE FERNANDO MINRO NAVAS, AN OFFICIAL OF THE PRESIDENCY'S ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT, ON 1 AUGUST. MINRO WAS CAPTURED AND TURNED OVER TO A COURT.</p><p>POLICE SOURCES STATED THAT THEY HAVE CONTINUED THE INVESTIGATIONS TO GET MORE DETAILS OF THE TWO KILLINGS BUT THEY NEITHER DENIED NOR CONFIRMED ANY CONNECTION OF SUSPECTED DRUG TRAFFICKERS WITH THE MURDER OF THE PDC LEADERS.</p></body></html>