<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0513"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0513"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0513</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0513 (UMASS)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 22 SEP 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] A HIGH-RANKING MILITARY SOURCE CLOSE TO VINICIO CEREZO'S GOVERNMENT SUGGESTED TODAY THAT "THE OFFICERS OF THE MOUNTAIN" [ODEM], A SECRET MILITARY ORGANIZATION THAT CONDUCTED TWO FAILED COUPS IN THE LAST YEAR AND A HALF, MAY BE INVOLVED IN THE WAVE OF TERRORIST EXPLOSIONS, ABDUCTIONS, AND POLITICAL MURDERS THAT HAS BEEN SCOURGING GUATEMALA OVER THE LAST 2 MONTHS.</p><p>THE MILITARY SOURCE, WHO MADE STATEMENTS TO AFP ON THE CONDITION THAT HIS IDENTITY WAS NOT REVEALED, SAID THAT "THOSE GENTLEMEN (ODEM) HAVE BECOME THE NUMBER ONE ENEMY" OF CEREZO'S GOVERNMENT.</p><p>THE SOURCE ADDED THAT "THE COUNTRY IS AGAIN FACING CERTAIN THREATS, INCLUDING THAT OF THOSE GENTLEMEN."</p><p>THUS FAR, NOBODY KNOWS FOR SURE WHO THE MEMBERS OF THE ORGANIZATION ARE, ALTHOUGH SOME MEDIA SOURECES CLAIM THEY ARE "VERY POWERFUL AND WELL ORGANIZED."</p><p>AMID THE TERRORIST ACTIVITY THAT HAS BEEN SHAKING GUATEMALA OVER THE LAST 2 MONTHS, "ODEM" HAS BEEN MARKING ITS INCREASING PRESENCE THROUGH FREQUENT COMMUNIQUES RELEASED CLANDESTINELY IN GUATEMALA CITY. IN THE COMMUNIQUES, IT LAUNCHES HARSH ATTACKS ON THE CURRENT GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT.</p><p>IN ONE OF THEIR MOST RECENT COMMUNIQUES, WHICH THEY CIRCULATED IN GUATEMALA CITY LAST WEEK, THE REBEL MILITARY MEN SAY: "WE WILL NOT STOP UNTIL WE CHANGE THIS SYSTEM OF ANARCHY, CORRUPTION, AND DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>ACCORDING TO AN OFFICIAL ARMY SPOKESMAN, THE SEDITIOUS MILITARYMEN "ARE OFFICERS WHO WERE REMOVED FROM POWER IN THE LAST FEW YEARS AND LOST ALL THEIR LEADERSHIP IN THE BARRACKS. THEIR RESENTMENT IS BEING MANIPULATED BY POLITICAL, CONSERVATIVE FORCES.</p><p>"THEY ARE MANIPULATED BY PEOPLE OF THE EXTREME RIGHT, IN OTHER WORDS, BY POLITICAL CRIMINALS WHO WANT TO RETURN TO POWER TO REGAIN THEIR PAST PRIVILEGES." THIS WAS STATED TODAY BY ONE OF THE MILITRAY OFFICERS WHO LINKED THE THE ODEM TO THE ESCALATION OF TERRORISM IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE SAME SOURCE ADMITTED THAT THE SUSPECTED MILITARY TERRORISTS COULD HAVE "SUPPORTERS" WITHIN THE ARMY, BUT ADDED THAT "THE UNITY" OF THE GUATEMALAN ARMED FORCES IS NOT THREATENED BY THEM.</p><p>IN THEIR FREQUENT COMMUNIQUES, ODEM IDENTIFIES ITSELF AS "PATRIOTS WHO OPPOSE THE COMMUNIST AND CORRUPT SYSTEM THEY [NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED] WANT TO IMPOSE ON US THROUGH THE CURRENT POLICY IMPLEMENTED BY THE DRUG TRAFFICKING CLIQUE IN POWER."</p></body></html>