<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1076"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1076"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MEDELLIN"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1076</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1076 (UNISYS)</p><p>MEDELLIN, 30 JAN 90 (AFP) -- [TEXT] COLOMBIAN DRUG MAFIAS HAVE DENIED THAT THEY ARE PREPARING AN ATTACK ON THE LIFE OF U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH, WHO WILL VISIT THIS CARIBBEAN COLONIAL BEACH RESORT ON 15 FEBRUARY FOR AN ANTI-DRUG SUMMIT MEETING.</p><p>BOLIVIAN PRESIDENT JAIME PAZ ZAMORA, COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO, PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA, AND U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH WILL SIGN A MANIFESTO IN CARTAGENA THAT WAS DESIGNED IN SANTA CRUZ DE LA SIERRA, BOLIVIA. THE DOCUMENT WILL OUTLINE STRATEGIES THAT THEY WILL ADOPT TO FIGHT DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>THE MYSTERIOUS CLANDESTINE GROUP THE "EXTRADITABLES," -- THE ARMED BRANCH OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL DRUG TRAFFICKERS -- SAID IN A BULLETIN RELEASED EARLY THIS MORNING THAT THE REPORTS OF A POSSIBLE ATTACK ON BUSH IN CARTAGENA ARE FALSE.</p><p>"THESE REPORTS ARE PART OF A PLAN TO UNDERMINE THE CREDIBILITY OF ALL OUR PEACE PROPOSALS," THE DOCUMENT SAID. IN THE DOCUMENT, THE "EXTRADITABLES" ALSO [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>LAST WEEKEND, THE U.S. CBS TELEVISION NETWORK REPORTED THE POSSIBILITY OF AN ATTACK WITH ROCKETS AND MISSILES BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS ON BUSH'S PLANE IN CARTAGENA.</p><p>IN A STATEMENT BY FOREIGN MINISTER JULIO LONDONO, THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT SAID THAT IT HAD NO KNOWLEDGE OF TERRORIST PLANS AGAINST THE U.S. PRESIDENT, AND ADDED THAT U.S. AND COLOMBIAN SECURITY ORGANIZATIONS WERE CAPABLE OF GUARANTEEING THE SAFETY OF THE FOUR PRESIDENTS.</p><p>THE EXTRADITABLES, A MAFIA GROUP BASED IN MEDELLIN, IN NORTHWEST COLOMBIAN, HAS BEEN INSISTING SINCE 17 JANUARY THAT THEY WANT A PEACE DIALOGUE WITH THE ADMINISTRATION OF LIBERAL PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO, WHO DECLARED WAR ON THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS IN AUGUST, 1989. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>