<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0252"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0252"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0252</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0252 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 26 JUN 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] TERRORIST SERGIO BUSCHMANN, WHO HAD BEEN HELD IN PREVENTIVE CUSTODY IN ALASKA, WAS SET FREE BY U.S. AUTHORITIES. THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT HAS EXPRESSED ITS FRUSTRATION OVER THAT DECISION, NOTING THAT IT WILL CONTINUE TO TAKE ALL NECESSARY STEPS AT EVERY OCCASION TO BRING SERGIO BUSCHMANN TO COURT IN CHILE.</p><p>THE INFORMATION WAS MADE PUBLIC BY CHILEAN FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESMAN CARLOS DUCCI WHEN HE RELEASED AN OFFICIAL COMMUNIQUE FROM THE FOREIGN MINISTRY.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [DUCCI] THE FOREIGN MINISTRY WAS INFORMED TODAY BY THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE THAT BECAUSE OF LEGAL TECHNICALITIES RELATED TO INTERPRETATIONS OF THE BILATERAL EXTRADITION TREATY OF 1900, IT CANNOT KEEP SERGIO BUSCHMANN IN PREVENTIVE CUSTODY, NOR CAN IT COMPLY WITH THE EXTRADITION REQUEST THAT IS BEING PREPARED IN CHILE. THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT MAKES PUBLIC ITS DISAPPOINTMENT AT THIS DECISION BY THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE. IT IS NOT SUFFICIENT IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM THAT SOME COUNTRIES SHOULD LIMIT THEMSELVES TO EXPELLING THE TERRORIST BUSCHMANN FROM THEIR TERRITORY. WE HAVE REQUESTED THAT JUSTICE BE ALLOWED TO OPERATE SO THAT BUSCHMANN CAN BE SUBMITTED TO DUE PROCESS IN A CASE OF A STRICTLY JUDICIAL NATURE.</p><p>BUSCHMANN HAS BEEN INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNIZED AS A TERRORIST; HE HAS ENDORSED VIOLENCE, INCITED ASSASSINATION, AND RAISED FUNDS FOR THE PURCHASE OF ARMS TO KILL CHILEANS. THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAS HAD AT THE PROPER TIME THE OPPORTUNITY TO INSPECT THE ARMS CLANDESTINELY INTRODUCED IN CHILE FOR TERRORIST PURPOSES BY SERGIO BUSCHMANN. THIS ACT HAS BEEN PUBLICLY CONDEMNED BY THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE, BECAUSE IT REVEALED THE THREAT INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM POSES TO THE SECURITY OF THE HEMISPHERE. THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT HAS TAKEN AND WILL TAKE ALL NECESSARY STEPS AT EVERY OPPORTUNITY TO BRING BUSCHMANN TO COURT, AND IT MUST NOW DEPLORE AND REJECT THE IMPUNITY WITH WHICH THIS AVOWED CRIMINAL WILL CONTINUE TO ENDORSE TERRORISM AND VIOLENCE ON THE INTERNATIONAL STAGE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>TERRORIST SERGIO BUSCHMANN, SPOKESMAN FOR THE MANUEL RODRIGUEZ PATRIOTIC FRONT, HAS THE STATUS OF POLITICAL REFUGEE IN SWEDEN. WHEN CARLOS DUCCI WAS ASKED IF BUSCHMANN HAS TRAVELED TO SWEDEN, HE REPLIED THAT HE DID NOT KNOW AND THAT HE ONLY HAS INFORMATION THAT BUSCHMANN HAS BEEN SET FREE.</p></body></html>