<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0049"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0049"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-12-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0049</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0049 (NOSC)</p><p>LA PAZ, 24 DEC 88 -- [TEXT] ACCORDING TO A CLAIM MADE BY THE MINISTER OF INTERIOR, MIGRATION, AND JUSTICE, JUAN CARLOS DURAN, 1988 WAS A "POSITIVE YEAR," BECAUSE THE GOVERNMENT MANAGED TO SCORE ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE ECONOMIC AREA AS WELL AS IN DEFENSE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM EXISTING IN BOLIVIA.</p><p>THE MINISTER REMARKED: "I BELIEVE THAT IT WAS A YEAR OF FULL ACCOMPLISHMENT, A VERY POSITIVE AND VERY GOOD YEAR"; HE ADDED THAT THE MONTHS OF THE CURRENT FISCAL YEAR REPRESENTED PROGRESS FOR THE GOVERNMENT IN STATE ADMINISTRATION TASKS.</p><p>HE EXPLAINED THAT GREATER CONSOLIDATION WAS ACHIEVED IN THE ECONOMIC AREA, MAKING IT POSSIBLE FOR THE EFFORTS INTENDED TO REINFORCE BOLIVIA'S POLITICAL SYSTEM TO BE WELL AIMED.</p><p>HE CLAIMED THAT A SYSTEM SUCH AS THE ONE IN FORCE IN OUR NATION HAS ENABLED THE CITIZENS TO ENJOY "ABSOLUTE FREEDOM," SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN UNDERSCORED NOT ONLY IN OUR COUNTRY, BUT IN THE NATIONS OF THE ENTIRE WORLD AS WELL.</p><p>HE NOTED THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS NOT HAD TO RESORT TO ANY UNUSUAL ACTION TO DEFEND DEMOCRACY. HE RECALLED MARTIAL LAW HAD NOT BEEN ORDERED, ATTESTING TO PROGRESS IN THE NATIONAL CONSCIOUSNESS.</p><p>HE COMMENTED: "BOLIVIA IS AN EXEMPLARY COUNTRY IN TERMS OF FREEDOM," STRESSING THE BENEFITS THIS NATION HAS EXPERIENCED BY HAVING A DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM IN WHICH EVERYONE HAS AN OPPORTUNITY TO DISAGREE EVEN WITH THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH.</p><p>HE SAID THAT THE CITIZENS AS A WHOLE HAVE FOUND IT NECESSARY FOR RIGHTS TO BE RECOGNIZED AND OBLIGATIONS ACCEPTED. FOR THIS REASON, HE CLAIMED, THE PRESENT GOVERNMENT HAS MADE IT POSSIBLE TO ACHIEVE STABILITY IN THE VARIOUS FIELDS OF ACTIVITY, SOMETHING THAT WILL HAVE FAR MORE VISIBLE EFFECTS IN THE NEAR FUTURE.</p><p>DRUG TRAFFICKING</p><p>WITH REGARD TO THE BATTLE AGAINST THE DRUG TRAFFIC, HE CITED THE WORK PERFORMED BY THE SPECIAL FORCES TO BATTLE DRUG TRAFFICKING WHICH, ACCORDING TO HIS ACCOUNT, DESTROYED HUNDRED OF COCAINE FACTORIES AND PROCESSING PITS, IN ADDITION TO CONFISCATING DRUGS AND ARRESTING PERSONS LINKED WITH THEIR PRODUCTION OR ILLICIT TRAFFICKING.</p><p>HE DECLARED THAT, DESPITE ITS ECONOMIC AND TECHNICAL LIMITATIONS, BOLIVIA HAS MANAGED TO RESPOND TO THE INTERNATIONAL CONFIDENCE AND TO FOSTER A CONSCIOUSNESS AIMED AT IMPROVING THE METHODS FOR COMBATING DRUG TRAFFICKERS.</p><p>ROBBERY</p><p>THE MINISTER ANNOUNCED THAT THE SANTA CRUZ POLICE HAD MOBILIZED IN A "COMBING OPERATION," TO FIND THE PERPETRATORS OF THE ROBBERY OF A CAR ON THE TRACK OF THE EASTERN RAILROAD SYSTEM FROM WHICH 130,000 BOLIVIANOS, INTENDED TO PAY CHRISTMAS BONUSES, WAS STOLEN.</p><p>HE SAID THAT THE ARMED FORCES AND POLICE WERE STILL COMPLYING WITH INSTRUCTIONS TO ERADICATE THE CRIME THAT HAS BEEN OCCURRING ON A LARGE SCALE DURING RECENT MONTHS IN THE CITY OF SANTA CRUZ, AND TO BENEFIT THE EASTERN POPULATION WITH PROTECTION.</p><p>HE EXPLAINED THAT THE POLICE HAVE BEEN TAKING STATEMENTS FROM INDIVIDUALS WHO MAY HAVE SEEN THE HOLDUP MEN AT CLOSE RANGE, SO AS TO CAPTURE THEM PROMPTLY.</p></body></html>