<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0669"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0669"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0669</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0669 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 11 NOV 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT HAS SAID THAT TODAY'S ATTACK ON THE NATIONAL GUARD HEADQUARTERS -- IN WHICH TWO CHILDREN WERE KILLED AND EIGHT PEOPLE WERE INJURED -- SHOWS THAT THE GUERRILLAS "DO NOT WANT PEACE AND WANT TO ESCALATE VIOLENCE."</p><p>IN A PRESS COMMUNIQUE, THE ALFREDO CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT SAID THAT THE ATTACK "IS ANOTHER TERRORIST ACTION WHICH DIRECTLY AFFECTS THE CIVILIAN POPULATION AND TRAMPLES HUMAN RIGHTS."</p><p>LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY PRESIDENT RICARDO VALDIVIESO TOLD ACAN - EFE THAT THESE ACTIONS "SHOW THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT'S (FMLN) BLINDNESS AND DESPERATION."</p><p>NATIONAL GUARD DIRECTOR CORONEL JUAN CARLOS CARRILLO SAID: "THESE ARE SUPPOSEDLY THE BIG ATTACKS BY THE TERRORISTS; HOWEVER, TODAY'S ATTACK DID NOT CAUSE MUCH DAMAGE TO THE GARRISON; INSTEAD, TWO CHILDREN WERE KILLED." THE CHILDREN WERE 1 AND 1/2 - AND 4-YEARS- OLD. TWO SOLDIERS WERE ALSO WOUNDED.</p><p>URBAN GUERRILLAS TODAY HURLED BOMBS AT THE NATIONAL GUARD HEADQUARTERS. ONE OF THE BOMBS EXPLODED INSIDE THE MILITARY FACILITIES AND THE REST LANDED IN A RAVINE.</p><p>ONE OF THE EXPLOSIVES HIT A MODEST HOME KILLING TWO CHILDREN AND INJURING FIVE CIVILIANS.</p><p>BOMB EXPERTS DISMANTLED A CAR BOMB WHICH PRESUMABLY HAD BEEN LEFT BY GUERRILLAS NEAR THE GARRISON.</p><p>MEANWHILE, OFFICIAL SOURCES REPORTED THAT THE ARMY AND REBELS HAVE SUSTAINED AT LEAST 20 CASUALTIES DURING THE PAST FEW HOURS AS A RESULT OF CLASHES IN SAN SALVADOR AND MORAZAN DEPARTMENTS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE (COPREFA), 6 GUERRILLAS WERE KILLED AND 13 WERE WOUNDED IN THOSE CLASHES. THE REPORT NOTES THE DEATH OF ONE SOLDIER.</p><p>ONE OF THE CLASHES, WHICH LASTED OVER 1 HOUR, OCCURRED ON THE SLOPES OF THE SAN SALVADOR VOLCANO, NORTH OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>ALONG WITH THE INTENSIFICATION OF MILITARY ACTIONS, THE FMLN HAS RESUMED ITS SABOTAGING OF THE ELECTRICITY SYSTEM, LEAVING VAST AREAS OF EL SALVADOR WITHOUT POWER.</p><p>THE RATIONING OF ELECTRICITY HAS LASTED BETWEEN 4 TO 6 HOURS IN THE METROPOLITAN AREA, AFFECTING INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION. THE LACK OF TRAFFIC LIGHTS HAS RESULTED IN LARGE TRAFFIC JAMS.</p></body></html>