<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1045"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1045"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1045</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1045 (TRW)</p><p>BOGOTA, 13 JAN 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT MINISTER CARLOS LEMOS SIMMONDS SAID ON 12 JANUARY THAT AS LONG AS THE GUERRILLA GROUPS CONTINUE TO RESPOND TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PEACE EFFORTS WITH MILITARY ACTIONS, THE GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE WILL ALSO HAVE TO RESPOND MILITARILY. MINISTER LEMOS WAS REFERRING TO THE CURRENT ATTACKS WHICH HAVE BEEN LAUNCHED BY SEVERAL REBEL GROUPS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY. MINISTER LEMOS SAID THAT THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH IS WORRIED ABOUT THE COUNTRY'S PUBLIC ORDER, AND ADDED THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS DETERMINED TO USE THE ARMY AND THE POLICE TO FIGHT VIOLENCE.</p><p>LIKEWISE, LEMOS SIMMONDS DESCRIBED THE GUERRILLA GROUPS STILL LAUNCHING ATTACKS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY AS ANACHRONIC AND OUT-DATED. HE SAID THAT WE HOPE THIS SITUATION WILL CHANGE SOON, AND STRESSED THAT SEEING WHAT IS HAPPENING IN EASTERN EUROPE, WE CANNOT UNDERSTAND WHY MANY OF THE REBEL GROUPS ARE BENT ON IMPOSING A SYSTEM THAT THEY CONSIDER IDEAL WHEN IT IS BEING REJECTED AND REPUDIATED BY SO MANY STATES THAT IMPOSED IT. MINISTER LEMOS SAID THAT THE THE GUERRILLA ACTION SHOULD BE UP-DATED; THE REBELS SHOULD STOP AND CONSIDER WHETHER THE STRUGGLE THEY ARE WAGING IS WORTH IT SINCE THE SYSTEM THEY ARE DEFENDING IS SOMETHING OF THE PAST.</p><p>MINISTER LEMOS ALSO TALKED ABOUT THE WAVE OF KIDNAPPINGS THAT IS ROCKING THE COUNTRY. HE SAID THAT THE GOVERNMENT AND DEFENSE MINISTRIES ARE TAKING SPECIAL MEASURES TO DEAL WITH THE SITUATION. HE SAID THAT WE CANNOT CONTINUE TO JUSTIFY THE USE OF KIDNAPPING AS A POLITICAL WEAPON AND ADDED THAT THE GOVERNMENT WILL DEAL WITH ALL THOSE INVOLVED IN KIDNAPPINGS AS COMMON CRIMINALS. THE MINISTER ALSO ASKED THE PEOPLE TO COOPERATE WITH THE AUTHORITIES IN LOCATING THOSE AREAS WHERE THE BANDS OF CRIMINALS ARE OPERATING.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT MINISTER ALSO TALKED ABOUT A DIALOGUE WITH THE REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA, FARC, AND SAID THAT TALKING ABOUT A DIALOGUE IS USELESS IF THEY CONTINUE THEIR SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES.</p></body></html>