<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0773"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0773"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0773</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0773 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 17 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] WE ARE IN CONTACT WITH SAN SALVADOR AND WE ARE RECEIVING MORE REPORTS ON THE PERSECUTION UNLEASHED AGAINST THE RELIGIOUS GROUPS IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>WE REMIND YOU THAT A FEW WEEKS AGO COLONEL FRANCISCO ELENA FUENTES AND COLONEL INOCENTE ORLANDO MONTANO LAUNCHED A CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE LUTHERAN AND OTHER CHURCHES THROUGHOUT EL SALVADOR. NOW THIS CAMPAIGN, ORCHESTRATED BY COL ELENA FUENTES, CHIEF OF THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE'S DEATH SQUADS, HAS HEIGHTENED. NOT ONLY HAVE JESUIT PRIESTS BEEN MURDERED, BUT THIS MORNING THE NATIONAL GUARD ARRESTED TWO PRIESTS AND SEVERAL MISSIONARIES, INCLUDING A U.S. CITIZEN. WE REPEAT: TWO PRIESTS AND SEVERAL MISSIONARIES HAVE BEEN ARRESTED INCLUDING A U.S. CITIZEN. THESE PEOPLE WERE ARRESTED BY THE NATIONAL GUARD. WE CALL ON ALL THE [WORD INDISTINCT] AROUND THE WORLD; WE CALL ON ALL THE LATIN AMERICAN RELIGIOUS SECTORS TO MOBILIZE. TWO PRIESTS AND SEVERAL MISSIONARIES WERE ARRESTED THIS MORNING BY THE NATIONAL GUARD IN SAN SALVADOR. AMONG THE ARRESTED PERSONS IS A U.S. CITIZEN.</p><p>RADIO VENCEREMOS IS IN CONTACT WITH SAN SALVADOR TO GATHER MORE DETAILED INFORMATION REGARDING THE WHEREABOUTS OF THE TWO PRIESTS AND SEVERAL MISSIONARIES, INCLUDING A U.S. CITIZEN, WHO WERE ARRESTED.</p><p>THE PERSECUTION AGAINST THE CHURCH CONTINUES BY ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] AND THE LA TANDONA [REFERENCE TO THE 1966 GRADUATES OF THE CAPTAIN GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY ACADEMY] MILITARY CLIQUE. RADIO VENCEREMOS CALLS ON ALL THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, ESPECIALLY THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSITIES AROUND THE WORLD, THE LATIN AMERICAN COMMUNITY, TO MOBILIZE, OCCUPY SALVADORAN EMBASSIES, DEMONSTRATE IN FRONT OF SALVADORAN EMBASSIES AROUND THE WORLD AND DEMAND THE RELEASE OF THE PRIESTS WHO WERE ARRESTED THIS MORNING BY THE NATIONAL GUARD. [WORDS INDISTINCT] 1 MINUTE FOR THE RELIGIOUS COMMUNITY AROUND THE WORLD TO SPEAK OUT AND MOBILIZE TO PRESSURE PRESIDENT CRISTIANI. THIS COULD SAVE THE LIVES OF THE PERSONS ARRESTED THIS MORNING BY THE NATIONAL GUARD, A BLOODTHIRSTY GUARD THAT IS RELIVING THE LAST DAYS OF THE SOMOZIST GUARD. THE KILLING OF PRIESTS AND NOW THE ARREST OF TWO PRIESTS AND SEVERAL MISSIONARIES FURTHER CONFIRMS THAT THE REGIME IS ON THE VERGE OF COLLAPSING, THAT IT IS DESPERATE AND NO LONGER CARES ABOUT THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, PRESSURE, OR REQUESTS FOR AN END TO THE BOMBINGS AND BLOODSHED. THIS MORNING'S RESPONSE HAS BEEN THE ARREST OF TWO PRIESTS AND SEVERAL MISSIONARIES.</p></body></html>