<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#" xmlns:dbp="http://dbpedia.org/resource/" id="DEV-MUC3-0666" lang="en"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0666"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MEXICO CITY (MEXICO)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0666</title></head><body vocab="http://schema.org/"><p>DEV-MUC3-0666 (GE)</p><p>MEXICO CITY (MEXICO), 10 NOV 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] <span>MEXICAN NARCOTICS POLICE</span> HAVE ARRESTED <span about="#chalaria" typeof="Person"><span property="description">COLOMBIAN CITIZEN</span> <span property="name">JORGE HUMBERTO CHALARIA</span>, KNOWN AS "<span property="alternateName">EL NEGRO</span>," <span property="description">THE REPRESENTATIVE IN MEXICO OF <span about="dbp:José_Gonzalo_Rodríguez_Gacha" typeof="Person"><span property="description">COLOMBIAN DRUG TRAFFICKER</span> <span property="name">GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA</span>, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS "<span property="alternateName">EL MEXICANO</span>," <span property="description">THE TOP CHIEF OF <span about="dbp:Medellín_Cartel" typeof="Organization" property="name">THE MEDELLIN CARTEL<link property="rdfs:member" resource="dbp:José_Gonzalo_Rodríguez_Gacha" /></span></span></span>,</span></span> <span about="dbp:Attorney_General_of_Mexico" typeof="Organization"><span property="name">THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE</span> (<span property="name">PGR</span>)</span> MADE KNOWN TODAY.</p><p><span about="#chalaria"><span property="name">CHALARIA</span>, <span property="description">30 YEARS OLD</span></span>, <span>5 OTHER COLOMBIANS, 1 VENEZUELAN, AND 12 MEXICANS</span> HAVE BEEN ARRESTED "IN THE LAST 2 DAYS" AND <span about="#cocaine550a" property="description" typeof="Thing">550 KG OF PURE COCAINE</span> HAVE BEEN CONFISCATED IN OPERATIONS CONDUCTED IN <span typeof="rdfs:Container"><span about="http://sws.geonames.org/3527646/" typeof="Place">THIS CITY</span> AND IN <span>THE STATES OF <span about="http://sws.geonames.org/3982846/" typeof="Place" property="name">SONORA</span> AND <span about="http://sws.geonames.org/3516391/" typeof="Place" property="name">TAMAULIPAS</span></span></span>, A PGR SPOKESMAN SAID.</p><p>THE GANG OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS LED BY CHALARIA WERE ABLE TO DELIVER <span about="#cocaine50" property="description">OVER 50 TONS OF PURE COCAINE</span> TO <span>THE STATES OF <span>CALIFORNIA</span> AND <span>FLORIDA</span></span> IN THE LAST 4 YEARS, THE PGR SPOKESMAN ADDED.</p><p>"EL NEGRO" CONFESSED THAT HE HAD BEEN IN MEXICO SINCE 1988 UNDER THE ORDERS OF <span about="dbp:José_Gonzalo_Rodríguez_Gacha">GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA</span>, ACCORDING TO THE SAME SOURCE.</p><p>THE INTERNATIONAL DRUG TRAFFICKING GANG HAD THE PROTECTION OF <span about="#cuellar" typeof="Person"><span property="name">ARTURO CUELLAR TIJERINA</span>, <span property="description">COMMANDER OF <span about="dbp:Federal_Judicial_Police" typeof="Organization" property="description">THE TAMAULIPAS <span property="name">JUDICIAL POLICE</span></span></span></span>, WHO WAS ALSO ARRESTED.</p><p><span about="#cuellar" property="name">CUELLAR</span> AND A GROUP OF POLICEMEN UNDER HIS ORDERS SUPPLIED FUEL TO THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS, WHO BROUGHT THE DRUG INTO MEXICO BY MEANS OF <span>LIGHT AIRCRAFT</span>, WHICH LANDED ON <span>CLANDESTINE RUNWAYS</span> NEAR THE BORDER WITH THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>THOSE ARRESTED CONFESSED THAT <span about="#delarosa" typeof="Person"><span property="description">AMERICAN</span> <span property="name">JULIO CHAGY DE LA ROSA</span>, <span property="description">A MIAMI RESIDENT</span>,</span> DISTRIBUTED THE DRUG AND "LAUNDERED" THE MONEY OBTAINED IN THE DRUG TRAFFICKING BUSINESS THROUGH <span about="#bagno" typeof="Organization">A COMPANY CALLED "<span property="name">ITAL BAGNO</span>,"</span> WHICH SUPPOSEDLY MANUFACTURED STOVES.</p><p>THEY SAID THAT ON 29 OCTOBER THEY RECEIVED <span about="#cocaine550" property="description">A LOAD OF 550 KG OF PURE COCAINE</span> FROM COLOMBIA, BROUGHT INTO THE COUNTRY FROM <span about="#ranch" typeof="Place" property="description">A RANCH LOCATED IN <span>SONORA</span></span>. THE NARCOTICS POLICE DETECTED THE ILLEGAL OPERATION AT THE RANCH AND ARRESTED <span typeof="rdfs:Container"><span about="#armeta" typeof="Person" property="name">ALFONSO CASTILLO ARMENTA</span> AND <span typeof="Person">HIS DAUGHTER</span></span>, WHO HAD MODERN RADIO COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT TO MAKE CONTACT WITH THE COLOMBIAN PLANES AND WITH <span about="#chalaria">"EL NEGRO."</span></p><p>THE INVESTIGATIONS LED THE POLICE TO <span>A RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD IN THIS CAPITAL</span>, WHERE <span about="#chalaria">"EL NEGRO"</span> HAD RENTED A HOME IN WHICH HE LIVED WITH <span about="#critiana" typeof="Person"><span property="description">A VENEZUELAN WOMAN</span> BY THE NAME OF <span property="name">CRIATINA ROSAS RODRIGUEZ</span></span>, WHO COVERED UP THE ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY HER COMPANION.</p><p>THE ARREST IS THE THIRD HEAVY BLOW DEALT ON THE INTERNATIONAL DRUG TRAFFICKING BUSINESS BY THE MEXICAN POLICE IN THE LAST 3 WEEKS.</p><p>ON 19 OCTOBER, THE POLICE ARRESTED COLOMBIANS <span about="#rodrigo" typeof="Person"><span property="name">RODRIGO DIZUNZA OCHOA</span>, <span property="description">NEPHEW OF <span about="#fabio" typeof="Person"><span property="description">DRUG TRAFFICKER</span> <span property="name">FABIO OCHOA</span></span></span></span>, AND <span about="#alfredo" typeof="Person"><span property="name">ALFREDO AGUILAR CASTRO</span>, <span property="description">NEPHEW OF <span about="dbp:José_Gonzalo_Rodríguez_Gacha">COLOMBIAN DRUG TRAFFICKER <span property="name">RODRIGUEZ GACHA</span></span></span></span>, WHO HAD <span about="#cocaine10kg" typeof="Thing" property="description">10 KG OF PURE COCAINE</span> IN THEIR POSSESSION.</p><p>EARLY THIS MONTH, <span about="#munoz" typeof="Person"><span property="description">MEXICAN</span> <span property="name">RAFAEL MUNOZ TALAVERA</span></span> WAS ARRESTED. HE ALLEGEDLY OWNS <span about="#cocaine20" typeof="Thing">THE <span property="description">20 TONS OF PURE COCAINE</span> <span property="description">DISCOVERED IN <span about="#warehouse" typeof="Place" property="description">A WAREHOUSE IN <span about="http://sws.geonames.org/5368361/">LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA</span></span>, IN SEPTEMBER</span></span>.</p><p>SINCE <span about="dbp:Carlos_Salinas_de_Gortari" property="name">PRESIDENT CARLOS SALINAS DE GORTARI</span> TOOK OFFICE LAST DECEMBER, THE MEXICAN NARCOTICS POLICE HAVE CONFISCATED <span about="#cocaine23" typeof="Thing" property="description">23 TONS OF PURE COCAINE</span> AND HAVE ARRESTED NEARLY 10,000 DRUG TRAFFICKERS.</p></body></html>