<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0253"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0253"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0253</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0253 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 17 JUN 89 (RADIO SANDINO) -- [TEXT] NICARAGUA HAS DENIED ANY LINKS WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF SALVADORAN PRESIDENCY MINISTER ANTONIO RODRIGUEZ PORTH 8 DAYS AGO, AN ALLEGATION MADE BY THE SALVADORAN ARMY. AT A NEWS CONFERENCE, COMMANDER BAYARDO ARCE, VICE COORDINATOR OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMISSION OF THE RULING SANDINIST NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, FSLN, TERMED IRRESPONSIBLE THE CHARGES MADE IN SAN SALVADOR THAT NICARAGUA TRAINED THE COMMANDO WHO KILLED RODRIGUEZ PORTH.</p><p>ARCE SAID: WE LACK THE EXPERIENCE FOR SUCH ATTACKS AND THEREFORE COULD NOT HAVE TRAINED ANYONE. HE RECALLED THAT THE FSLN NEVER RESORTED TO THAT TYPE OF ACTION DURING ITS STRUGGLE AGAINST THE DICTATOR ANASTASIO SOMOZA, WHO WAS OVERTHROWN IN 1979.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES HAVE CLAIMED THAT RODRIGUEZ PORTH WAS KILLED BY A FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT COMMANDO TRAINED IN NICARAGUA. HOWEVER, THAT GUERRILLA GROUP HAS DENIED ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ACTION.</p><p>ARCE ALSO DENIED THAT NICARAGUA HAS SENT WEAPONS TO PANAMA WHEN TENSION WITH THE UNITED STATES INCREASED LAST MONTH, AS REPORTED IN THE U.S. MEDIA. I AM NOT SURPRISED BY THOSE STATEMENTS, ARCE SAID, ADDING THAT THE UNITED STATES CONTINUES ITS EFFORTS TO DISCREDIT THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT WITH SUCH LIES.</p></body></html>