<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1087"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1087"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1087</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1087 (UNISYS)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 2 FEB 90 (VOZ DE HONDURAS NETWORK) -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] SOME PEOPLE NAIVELY THINK THAT A COUNTRY CURRY FAVOR WITH THE U.S. JUST BY BEING DEMOCRATIC. SOME PEOPLE HAVE PLACED THEMSELVES AT THE SERVICE OF THIS SUPERPOWER, AS LONG AS THE SUPERPOWER HAS HAD NEED OF THEM. HOWEVER, ONCE THEY HAVE OUTLIVED THEIR USEFULNESS, NOT ONLY ARE THEY ABANDONED, BUT NOW THEY ARE EVEN KIDNAPPED, JAILED, AND SENTENCED.</p><p>THIS HAPPENED TO PEREZ JIMENEZ OF VENEZUELA; LEONIDAS TRUJILLO OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, WHO WAS MURDERED BY THE CIA; SOMOZA OF NICARAGUA; AND LATELY NORIEGA OF PANAMA.</p><p>THESE MEN ARE VALUED ONLY AS LONG AS THEY ARE USEFUL TO THE UNITED STATES. ONCE THEY ARE NO LONGER USEFUL, THEY ARE NO LONGER REGARDED AS MEN. APPARENTLY SOMETHING SIMILAR HAPPENS WITH COUNTRIES. IF A COUNTRY HAS ANY POLITICAL, MILITARY, OR STRATEGIC VALUE, THAT COUNTRY WILL ENJOY WASHINGTON'S PREFERENCE. HOWEVER, ONCE THE INTEREST NO LONGER EXISTS, THE AID IS OVER. IF THE INTEREST DECREASES, THE AID DECRESES.</p><p>HONDURAS IS A TYPICAL EXAMPLE OF THIS POLICY FOR THE WORLD TO SEE. THE POINDEXTER TRIAL SHOWED THAT OVER THE SENATE'S OBJECTION, SPECIAL AID WAS GRANTED TO HONDURAS IN EXCHANGE FOR CONVERTING IT INTO A LEASED TERRITORY FOR CONTRA OPERATIONS.</p><p>THE YEARS IN WHICH OUR TERRITORY SHAMEFULLY SERVED TO SHED BLOOD IN ONE OUR NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES, ARE YEARS IN WHICH HONDURAS WAS REGARDED AS A COUNTRY DESERVING MILITARY AND ECONOMIC AID.</p><p>WITH THE CHANGE OF U.S. POLICY, AFTER IT ACCEPTED ITS MILITARY FAILURE AGAINST NICARAGUA, HONDURAS IS NO LONGER THE APPLE OF ITS EYE, ACCORDING TO THE UNITED STATES. THAT IS WHY THE UNITED STATES IS NOT ONLY GRUDGING ITS AID, BUT IS NOT EVEN GRANTING THE SCANT AID ALREADY APPROVED, UNLESS HONDURAS AGREES TO ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS.</p><p>THERE IS SOMETHING ELSE. SINCE THE UNITED STATES IS THE IMF'S MOST IMPORTANT MEMBER AND SUPPORTER, IT HAS ASKED THE IMF TO TIGHTEN THE SCREWS ON HONDURAS, AND TO EVEN LET HONDURAS USE UP ITS MEAGER GOLD RESERVES UNTIL HONDURAS IS FORCED TO SAY, "FORGIVE ME, MASTER."</p><p>AS WE CAN RECALL, WHEN THE GOLD STANDARD WAS ABANDONED FOR THE DOLLAR STANDARD AND SPECIAL DRAWING RIGHTS, THE IMF, AND OTHER MEASURES WERE CREATED, EACH COUNTRY DEPOSITED GOLD RESEVES TO BACK UP ITS CURRENCY EXCHANGE. THEREAFTER, ITS MONETARY BACKING WOULD DEPEND ON ITS RESERVE OF DOLLARS AND OTHER STRONG CURRENCIES.</p><p>THAT IS HOW GETTING FOREIGN RESERVES BECAME THE MAIN CONCERN OF NATIONS, IF THEY WANTED TO MAINTAIN THE PARITY OF THEIR CURRENCY.</p><p>AS A RESULT OF THE OIL CRISIS, WHICH ON THE ONE HAND SAVED THE OIL-PRODUCING COUNTRIES, AND ON THE OTHER HAND DEALT A BLOW TO THE OIL IMPORTERS, PLUS THE UNCONTROLLED FOREIGN DEBT THAT THE PETRODOLLARS BOOM BROUGHT WITH IT, THE COUNTRIES WENT TO THE HILT IN DEBT. AT THE SAME TIME THEY LOST HUGE SUMS IN THE INTERNATIONAL MARKETS BECAUSE OF THE DROP IN THE PRICES OF COFFEE, SILVER, TIN, COPPER, AND OTHER EXPORT PRODUCTS.</p><p>IN SHORT, THE SOURCE OF EXCHANGE DECREASED FOR EVERYONE, EVEN THOUGH PRODUCTION OF EACH ITEM INCREASED. DEBTS GREW UNTIL THEY BECAME NIGHTMARES THAT ABSORBED ALMOST ALL THE COUNTRY'S FOREIGN INCOME. THE MONETARY RESERVES THAT WERE BACKING THE CURRENCIES FELL. THAT IS WHY IN LATIN AMERICA THERE HAS BEEN ONE DEVALUATION AFTER ANOTHER, COUNTRY AFTER COUNTRY.</p><p>IN THE BEGINNING THE IMF USED WHAT WAS CALLED A STAND-BY LOAN, WHICH HELPED COUNTRIES WHEN THEY RAN SHORT OF RESERVES. WITH THOSE EMERGENCY LOANS THEY COULD MAINTAIN THE PARITY OF THEIR CURRENCY, UNTIL THEY COULD BALANCE THEIR RESERVES.</p><p>HOWEVER, COUNTRIES LIKE HONDURAS, WHICH WERE DEEPLY INDEBTED, BEGAN TO FILL THEIR LACK OF INTERNATIONAL RESERVES WITH LOANS AND DONATIONS. EVEN SO THE COUNTRY CONTINUED TO PAY ITS IMPORTS AND EXPENSES IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE, UNTIL IT REACHED THE CURRENT SITUATION IN WHICH WE CANNOT PAY THE DEBT. WE ARE OVERDUE $140 MILLION IN PAYMENTS ON OUR DEBT. OUR CREDIT IS NO LONGER GOOD. THE IMF HAS NO MORE MONEY TO GIVE TO HONDURAS TO CONTINUE ITS VICIOUS CYCLE OF GETTING INTO DEBT TO PAY OFF ITS DEBTS. YET THE UNITED STATES HAS ASKED THE IMF TO TIGHTEN OUR SCREWS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>