<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0999"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0999"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0999</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0999 (SRI)</p><p>BOGOTA, 15 DEC 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE COLOMBIAN SENATE TODAY APPROVED A PARDON LAW THAT AUTHORIZES COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO TO "PARDON" OVER THE NEXT 6 MONTHS THE ARMED GROUPS THAT HAVE DEMONSTRATED THEIR DESIRE FOR PEACE.</p><p>THE MEASURE INITIALLY FAVORS THE 19-APRIL MOVEMENT [M-19], WHICH PROMISED THE GOVERNMENT TO SURRENDER ITS WEAPONS AND GIVE UP VIOLENCE IN ORDER TO BECOME A POLITICAL PARTY.</p><p>THE PARDON LAW IS ONE OF THE COMMITMENTS MADE BY THE GOVERNMENT IN THE AGREEMENT SIGNED WITH THE M-19 AS A RESULT OF THE NEGOTIATIONS THAT BEGAN LAST MARCH AND THAT SHOULD CONCLUDE WITH THE TOTAL DEMOBILIZATION OF THE M-19 AND THE DELIVERY OF ITS WEAPONS TO THE SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL.</p><p>ONCE ITS MAIN LEADERS, AGAINST WHOM THERE ARE SERIOUS CHARGES FOR AGGRESSION AGAINST THE STATE, ARE PARDONED, THE M-19 WILL BECOME A LEGAL, POLITICAL GROUP.</p><p>THE M-19 WAS SCHEDULED TO DELIVER ITS WEAPONS ON 19 DECEMBER, BUT THE ACTION WAS SUSPENDED UNTIL A DECISION IS MADE REGARDING THE AGREED UPON CREATION OF A "SPECIAL ELECTORAL DISTRICT, WHICH WOULD "GUARANTEE THE M-19" AN ACTIVE PRESENCE IN THE NATIONAL CONGRESS.</p><p>THAT MEASURE, WHICH IS PART OF THE "PACKAGE" OF CONSTITUTIONAL REFORMS PROPOSED BY THE GOVERNMENT, WAS SUSPENDED AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH COULD NOT REACH AN AGREEMENT ON IT BEFORE THE END OF ITS REGULAR SESSION.</p><p>THE REFORMS ALSO INCLUDED THE HOLDING OF A REFERENDUM TO CONSULT THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE ON THE EXTRADITION ISSUE. LEGAL EXTRADITION WAS ADOPTED THROUGH AN ADMINISTRATIVE MEASURE IN ORDER TO FIGHT DRUG TRAFFICKING. THE COLOMBIAN CHAMBER OF REPRESENTATIVES' APPROVAL OF THE INCLUSION OF THE EXTRADITION ISSUE IN THE REFERENDUM CAUSED A POLITICAL CRISIS WITH THE RESIGNATION OF THE PRESIDENTS OF THE LIBERAL AND CONSERVATIVE PARTIES.</p><p>TODAY THE PLENUM OF THE COLOMBIAN CONGRESS DID NOT APPROVE THE HOLDING OF A PLEBISCITE IN SEPTEMBER 1990, IN WHICH THE VOTERS WOULD DECIDE TO EITHER APPROVE OR DISAPPROVE THE EXTRADITION OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS, BECAUSE OF THE RESIGNATIONS OF FORMER PRESIDENTS JULIO CESAR TURBAY AYALA AND MISAEL PASTRANA BORRERO, LEADERS OF THE LIBERAL AND CONSERVATIVE PARTIES, RESPECTIVELY.</p><p>TODAY, IN ADDITION TO THE DECISION MADE IN CONGRESS, WHICH ALONG WITH THE CHAMBER OF REPRESENTATIVES WILL CLOSE ITS REGULAR SESSION PERIOD ON 17 DECEMBER, GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA, A.K.A THE MEXICAN, ONE OF THE MOST WANTED COLOMBIAN DRUG TRAFFICKERS AND THE NUMBER-TWO MAN IN THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, WAS KILLED DURING A CLASH WITH THE POLICE.</p></body></html>