<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1293"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1293"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAVANA (CUBA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1293</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1293 (BOEING)</p><p>HAVANA (CUBA), 18 MAY 90 (INTERNATIONAL SERVICE) -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] NINE YEARS AGO TODAY, THEN ECUADORAN PRESIDENT JAIME ROLDOS AGUILERA DIED WHEN HIS PLANE CRASHED WHILE ON A FLIGHT TO THE INTERIOR OF HIS COUNTRY. THE SMALL PLANE SUFFERED THE ACCIDENT WHILE FLYING THE PRESIDENT, HIS WIFE, AND A DELEGATION THAT INCLUDED HIGH- RANKING ARMY OFFICERS FROM QUITO TO LOJA PROVINCE. ALL OF THEM DIED. THE RELATIVES OF THE LATE PRESIDENT EXPRESSED DOUBTS THAT THE PLANE CRASHED ACCIDENTALLY AND FILED CHARGES AS PRIVATE CITIZENS, BUT THE CASE WAS LATER CLOSED.</p><p>DOUBTS HAVE BEEN EXPRESSED SEVERAL TIMES ABOUT THE ALLEGED ACCIDENT, AND THE CASE RESURFACED AGAIN WHEN A NEW INVESTIGATION WAS OPENED AND ONE OF THE WITNESSES DISCLOSED THAT THERE IS EVIDENCE OF PARTICIPATION BY THE U.S. CIA IN THE DEATH OF ROLDOS AND HIS RETINUE. ERNESTO BUENANO, ROLDOS' POLITICAL ADVISER, ASSERTED BEFORE A MULTIPARTY COMMISSION OF THE ECUADORAN CONGRESS THAT THE PLANE ACCIDENT IN WHICH THE FORMER PRESIDENT DIED DID NOT RESULT FROM HUMAN ERROR OR TECHNICAL FAILURE BUT FROM SABOTAGE, WHICH CONSISTED OF CONTAMINATING THE PLANE'S FUEL TO CAUSE ITS ENGINES TO STALL. THE WITNESS POINTED OUT THAT THERE IS INCONTESTABLE EVIDENCE ABOUT THIS AND URGED THE COMMISSION TO INVESTIGATE THE PERSONS WHO WERE RESPONSIBLE FOR SUPPLYING FUEL TO THE PRESIDENT'S PLANE.</p><p>IT IS WORTH MENTIONING THAT ROLDOS' ADMINISTRATION WAS CHARACTERIZED BY A PROGRESSIVE ORIENTATION, AND MORE SPECIFICALLY BY HIS DIRECT OPPOSITION TO U.S. ATTEMPTS TO DOMINATE THE LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES. THE FORMER PRESIDENT WAS OPENLY IN SOLIDARITY WITH THE SANDINIST NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT OF NICARAGUA AND THE SALVADORAN INSURGENTS. HIS ADOPTION OF THIS STANCE LED U.S. IMPERIALISM TO CONSIDER THE ROLDOS DOCTRINE AS A DANGER TO ITS INTERESTS.</p><p>WHEN ONE RECALLS THE POSITION OF THE FORMER ECUADORAN PRESIDENT, THE DISAPPEARANCE OF FORMER PANAMANIAN LEADER OMAR TORRIJOS HERRERA ALSO COMES TO MIND. TORRIJOS' DEATH WAS SIMILAR IN CIRCUMSTANCES TO THAT OF JAIME ROLDOS, AND HIS PATRIOTIC ATTITUDE WITH REGARD TO HIS COUNTRY'S SOVEREIGNTY WAS ALSO SIMILAR. TORRIJOS AND ROLDOS WERE A NUISANCE TO U.S. PLANS IN LATIN AMERICA AND BOTH WERE MURDERED, AS VARIOUS SOURCES HAVE DISCLOSED. FORMER CHILEAN PRESIDENT SALVADOR ALLENDE [WORDS INDISTINCT] IT CANNOT BE SAID THAT THE CIA'S HAND DIRECTLY TOOK HIS LIFE, THE ORGANIZATION DID HELP DESTABILIZE HIS PROGRESSIVE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>THE INVESTIGATIONS ON JAIME ROLDOS' DEATH AND WHAT WAS SAID AT THE TIME ABOUT THE ALLEGED ACCIDENT SUFFERED BY OMAR TORRIJOS REVEAL ONCE MORE THE SINISTER PLANS OF THE U.S. CIA AGAINST OUR LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN PEOPLE, WHO MUST REMAIN ON THE ALERT.</p></body></html>