<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1061"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1061"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1061</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1061 (TRW)</p><p>LIMA, 21 JAN 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] IT WAS OFFICIALLY REPORTED TODAY IN LIMA THAT PERUVIAN SECURITY FORCES KILLED 14 TERRORISTS IN CONFRONTATIONS THAT OCCURRED ON 20 JANUARY IN SEVERAL POINTS OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>AN INTERIOR MINISTRY COMMUNIQUE INDICATES THAT THE ARMED CONFRONTATIONS OCCURRED IN THE CENTRAL MOUNTAIN JUNIN DEPARTMENT AND IN PUNO DEPARTMENT, IN THE SOUTHEASTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE DOCUMENT STATES THAT THE POLICE INTERCEPTED THE GROUP FOLLOWING A TIPOFF BY AGENTS WHO SPECIALIZE IN OBTAINING INFORMATION. THE CLASH OCCURRED IN CONRAY, TARMA PROVINCE, JUNIN DEPARTMENT, WHERE A COMBINED ARMY-NATIONAL POLICE PATROL KILLED SEVEN "SUBVERSIVE CRIMINALS" INCLUDING ONE WOMAN.</p><p>THE PATROL SEIZED TWO RIFLES, ONE CARBINE, ONE REVOLVER, AND EXPLOSIVES.</p><p>IN THE VILLAGE OF SOLLOCOTA, THE NATIONAL POLICE REPELLED A 3-HOUR ATTACK CARRIED OUT BY APPROXIMATELY 20 TERRORISTS, 4 OF WHOM DIED.</p><p>THE INTERIOR MINISTRY COMMUNIQUE INDICATES THAT A PATROL PURSUED THE ATTACKERS, WHO WITHDREW TO THE AREA OF VILCASUSUYA WHERE THE SECURITY FORCES KILLED THREE SUBVERSIVES. FIVE GUNS, HAND GRENADES, CARBINE LAUNCHED GRENADES, AND ABUNDANT QUANTITIES OF AMMUNITION WERE SEIZED.</p><p>THE DOCUMENT STATES THAT THE ARMY AND NATIONAL POLICE DID NOT SUFFER ANY CASUALTIES.</p><p>THE COMMUNIQUE ONLY DEFINES THE TERRORISTS AS "SUBVERSIVE CRIMINALS" WITHOUT INDICATING WHETHER THEY BELONG TO THE MAOIST SHINING PATH GROUP OR TO THE GUEVARIST TUPAC AMARU REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT (MRTA).</p><p>ACCORDING TO PRESS SOURCES, DURING THE MONTH OF JANUARY THERE HAVE BEEN APPROXIMATELY 170 DEATHS, INCLUDING THOSE OF THE 20-JANUARY CONFRONTATIONS, DUE TO PERU'S POLITICAL VIOLENCE.</p><p>A CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE IS STUDYING THE CAUSES OF VIOLENCE. IT HAS REPORTED THAT SINCE MAY 1980, WHEN SHINING PATH BEGAN ITS ARMED STRUGGLE, AND DECEMBER 1989 THERE HAVE BEEN 17,500 DEATHS DUE TO POLITICAL VIOLENCE.</p></body></html>