<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0242"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0242"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0242</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0242 (ADS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 9 JUN 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [EXCERPTS] THE RULING NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA) IN EL SALVADOR TODAY CONDEMNED THE MURDER OF PRESIDENCY MINISTER ANTONIO RODRIGUEZ PORTH AND TWO OF HIS BODYGUARDS PERPETRATED BY PRESUMED GUERRILLAS.</p><p>THE MINISTER AND HIS TWO BODYGUARDS DIED WHEN RODRIGUEZ PORTH'S RESIDENCE IN SAN SALVADOR WAS MACHINEGUNNED.</p><p>ARENA DEPUTIES DID NOT DISMISS THE POSSIBILITY THAT THE RULING PARTY MAY WITHDRAW PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S DIALOGUE OFFER TO THE GUERRILLAS IF IT IS CONFIRMED THAT THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) CARRIED OUT THE ATTACK.</p><p>HOWEVER, ARENA LEADERS WHO ARRIVED AT RODRIGUEZ PORTH'S RESIDENCE DISMISSED THE POSSIBILITY THAT "OTHER GROUPS INTERESTED IN THE CONTINUATION OF VIOLENCE" COULD HAVE PERPETRATED THE ATTACK. THE DEPUTIES DID NOT IDENTIFY THESE GROUPS.</p><p>THUS FAR, NEITHER THE GUERRILLAS NOR ANY OTHER ORGANIZATION HAVE CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE MURDER OF THE MINISTER, WHO WAS ONE OF THE MOST PROMIMENT MEMBERS OF CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT, AS WELL AS OF SALVADORAN PRIVATE ENTERPRISE.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE ALSO CONDEMNED THE MURDER OF MINISTER RODRIGUEZ PORTH, WHO WAS A FORMER DIRECTOR OF THAT BUSINESS ORGANIZATION, AND RECALLED HIS LINKS WITH SALVADORAN PRIVATE ENTERPRISE.</p><p>PRESIDENT CRISTIANI IS CURRENTLY HOLDING A SPECIAL GOVERNMENT MEETING TO ASSESS THE SITUATION FOLLOWING THE MINISTER'S DEATH. AN OFFICIAL COMMUNIQUE IS EXPECTED IN THE NEXT FEW HOURS.</p></body></html>