<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0184"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0184"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0184</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0184 (ADS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 22 APR 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] WE HAVE NOW UNFOLDED OUR MILITARY MAP, ON WHICH WE HAVE PLACED A SMALL BLACK CIRCLE AT EACH COMBAT SITE, A RED CIRCLE AT THE SITE OF EACH ACT OF SABOTAGE, AND A GREEN CIRCLE FOR EACH AMBUSH OF MILITARY VEHICLES. OVER THE PAST 24 HOURS, THE BLACK CIRCLES ON OUR MAP HAVE BEEN CONCENTRATED IN SAN SALVADOR AND THE EASTERN REGION. UNDOUBTEDLY, THE MOST PROMINENT ACTION HAS BEEN THE ATTACK ON THE NAVY HEADQUARTERS IN SAN SALVADOR'S DENSELY POPULATED SANTA ANITA NEIGHBORHOOD. WE ARE WAITING FOR AN OFFICIAL WAR BULLETIN ON THAT ACTION.</p><p>ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT CHARACTERISTICS OF THAT ATTACK IS THAT IT WAS STAGED DESPITE THE ARMY'S PRESENCE IN THE HEART OF THE CAPITAL, AND IT OCCURRED IN FULL DAYLIGHT. AT NOON ON FRIDAY, A CONTINGENT OF URBAN GUERRILLAS GOT WITHIN 50 METERS OF THE NAVY HEADQUARTERS AND LAUNCHED AN ATTACK WITH RIFLES AND ROCKET LAUNCHERS. EVERY SHOT HIT ITS TARGET. ARMED FORCES PATROLS TRIED TO CUT OFF OUR FIGHTERS' RETREAT THROUGH THE STREETS OF THE CAPITAL, BUT THE SOLDIERS WERE UNSUCCESSFUL BECAUSE IN SAN SALVADOR, THE PEOPLE THEMSELVES FORM A MOUNTAIN THAT PROVIDES COVER FOR OUR URBAN GUERRILLAS.</p><p>EARLY ON SATURDAY MORNING, WE AMBUSHED AN ARMY CONVOY ON THE PAN AMERICAN HIGHWAY AT EL PUNTILLAL, YAPATZTEPEQUE, USING EIGHT EXPLOSIVE CHARGES. THE AMBUSHED TROOPS WERE REINFORCED BY OTHER UNITS, WITH WHOM WE FOUGHT FOR AN HOUR. THIS AMBUSH WAS CARRIED OUT AGAINST ENEMY ARMORED UNITS. THE RESULT OF THIS ACTION WAS AN ESTIMATED 35 CASUALTIES, INCLUDING AN OFFICER OF THE TECHUACAN BATTALION'S RECONDO UNIT AND A CAVALRY OFFICER. FOR OUR PART, WE REPORT THE HEROIC LOSS IN BATTLE OF OUR COMRADE JACKSON.</p><p>OUR REVOLUTIONARY SALUTE TO THE BRAVE FIGHTERS OF EL PUNTILLAL, WHO INFLICTED THIS LARGE NUMBER OF CASUALTIES ON 5TH INFANTRY BRIGADE TROOPS ON THE PAN AMERICAN HIGHWAY.</p></body></html>