<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1000"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1000"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY (COLOMBIA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1000</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1000 (SRI)</p><p>NO CITY (COLOMBIA), NO DATE -- [INTERVIEW WITH GENERAL CARLOS ARTURO CASADIEGO TORRADO, SECOND IN COMMAND OF THE COLOMBIAN POLICE BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [REPORTER] GENERAL, WHO CONDUCTED THE OPERATIONS -- THE ELITE FORCES, THE SPECIAL OPERATIONS GROUP [GOES] ...HOW MANY UNITS PARTICIPATED IN THIS ACTION?</p><p>[CASADIEGO] IT WAS A STRIKE THAT WAS CONDUCTED BY A SPECIALIZED GROUP, BUT THE WORK WAS ACCOMPLISHED BY ALL DEPARTMENTS OF THE NATIONAL POLICE IN GENERAL. THIS WORK WAS UNDERTAKEN BY ALL THOSE WHO ARE IN CHARGE OF FIGHTING DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>[REPORTER] HOW WAS THE GOVERNMENT AND PRESIDENT INFORMED ABOUT THIS?</p><p>[CASADIEGO] JUST AS I AM REPORTING IT TO YOU. I TOLD THE PRESIDENT THAT WE HAD IDENTIFIED RODRIGUEZ GACHA, HIS SON, AND 15 OTHERS AFTER THE OPERATION WAS CARRIED OUT.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT DID THE PRESIDENT TELL YOU AFTER YOU GAVE HIM THE NEWS?</p><p>[CASADIEGO] IT WAS SIMPLY A NATIONAL POLICE REPORT TO THE PRESIDENT. LATER ON, WE WILL PROVIDE HIM WITH THE DETAILS AFTER THE INSPECTORS RETURN.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT ELSE DID YOU FIND IN THE AREA WHERE THE OPERATION WAS CARRIED OUT? DID YOU FIND WEAPONS? WERE SOME PEOPLE ABLE TO ESCAPE?</p><p>[CASADIEGO] NO, I HAVE NO MORE DETAILS. WE ARE JUST RECEIVING THE INFORMATION OVER THE RADIO, AND WE CANNOT GIVE DETAILS OVER THE RADIO.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT CAN WE EXPECT IN THE NEXT FEW MINUTES REGARDING THIS INFORMATION?</p><p>[CASADIEGO] WITHOUT DOUBT, THIS INFORMATION WILL BE ANNOUNCED WITH FULLER DETAILS BY THE DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL POLICE. THE GENERALS AND THE NATIONAL POLICE STAFF ARE MEETING HERE. WE ARE GOING TO CONDUCT A SERIES OF OPERATIONS TO CONSOLIDATE THE AREA AND TO DO WHAT THE LAW REQUIRES.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT ABOUT THE OTHER MAJOR DRUG CARTEL LEADERS?</p><p>[CASADIEGO] WE ARE DOING OUR JOB AND THIS IS PROOF THAT WE ARE DOING OUR JOB. I BELIEVE THAT COLOMBIA MUST CONGRATULATE THE NATIONAL POLICE FOR THE JOB THEY HAVE DONE.</p><p>[REPORTER] GENERAL, YOU HAVE SAID THE AREA IS BEING REINFORCED. DOES THIS MEAN MORE NATIONAL POLICE TROOPS ARE BEING DEPLOYED TO THE AREA? WILL THE OPERATIONS CONTINUE IN SEARCH OF OTHER DRUG CARTEL LEADERS?</p><p>[CASADIEGO] WE ARE SEARCHING AND BLOCKING OFF THE AREA. THAT IS WHAT WE ARE DOING.</p><p>[REPORTER] IS THAT THE REPORT THE NATIONAL POLICE HAVE RELEASED TO THE GOVERNMENT AND TO COLOMBIANS?</p><p>[CASADIEGO] THAT IS THE REPORT WE HAVE RELEASED TO THEM, AND WE ASK ALL CITIZENS TO CONTINUE COOPERATING WITH US. THEY CAN BE SURE THAT WE WILL TRY TO SIGNIFICANTLY CUT THE NUMBER OF CRIMES BEING COMMITTED.</p></body></html>