<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0006"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0006"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0006</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0006 (NOSC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 9 JAN 90 (DPA) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN ARMY TODAY PREVENTED THE OCCUPATION OF CITIES IN THE EASTERN PART OF EL SALVADOR, WAGING STRONG CLASHES BETWEEN MIDNIGHT AND DAWN, ACCORDING TO REPORTS BY MILITARY SOURCES.</p><p>THE ATTACKS, ACCORDING TO THE REPORTS, TOOK PLACE IN USULUTAN, USULUTAN DEPARTMENT, 110 KM EAST OF THE CAPITAL, AND IN SANTA ELENA WHERE AS OF 0700 CLASHES WERE STILL UNDER WAY. SANTA ELENA IS LOCATED 119 KM EAST OF THE CAPITAL, AND BOTH CITIES ARE COFFEE REGIONS.</p><p>IN USULUTAN, 6TH BRIGADE TROOPS AND RAPID DEPLOYMENT BATTALIONS REPELLED THE INCURSION WITH ARTILLERY FIRE. DURING THE 2D WEEK OF DECEMBER, THERE HAD BEEN STRONG CLASHES ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF USULUTAN, IN WHAT THE GUERRILLAS CALLED THE "BATTLE OF EL NISPERAL," IN THE CANTON THAT BEARS THE SAME NAME, WHICH COST THE ARMY 29 DEAD, ALTHOUGH IT HAS ONLY ADMITTED TO 21 DEATHS.</p><p>IN SANTA ELENA THE CLASHES WERE ALSO STRONG, BUT SO FAR THERE HAVE BEEN NO REPORTS OF CASUALTIES ON EITHER SIDE.</p><p>FROM SAN VICENTE, IN THE CENTRAL PART OF THE COUNTRY, WHERE THE CHICHONTEPEC VOLCANO IS LOCATED, STRONG CLASHES WERE REPORTED, AND THE 5TH BRIGADE BOMBED REBEL POSITIONS ON THE COLCANO, WHERE THE FMLN HAS STRONG BASTIONS.</p><p>THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE IS CARRYING OUT OPERATIONS IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR. AND ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF THE CAPITAL THIS MORNING POWERFUL EXPLOSIONS, CHARACTERIZED AS MILITARY ACTIONS TO PREVENT REBELS FROM GATHERING, COULD BE HEARD. THE NIGHT BEFORE LAST, THERE WERE ATTEMPTS TO ENTER THE CAPITAL FROM THAT DIRECTION.</p><p>THE ARMY HAS INCREASED ITS SURVEILLANCE TO PREVENT MOBILIZATIONS, AND THROUGH CAREFUL SEARCHES VEHICLES ARE BEING CONTROLLED AT THE CAPITAL CITY'S ENTRANCES AND EXITS.</p><p>IN OTHER ACTIONS, THE ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE REPORTED AT LEAST SIX FMLN DEATHS IN VARIOUS PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>LAST NIGHT THERE WERE FEWER ATTACKS ON STORES AND ELECTRIC TOWERS IN THE CAPITAL. THERE WERE ALSO THREATS OF POWER RATIONING IF THESE ACTIONS CONTINUED.</p></body></html>