<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0638"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0638"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0638</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0638 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 4 NOV 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [TEXT] VICE PRESIDENT FRANCISCO MERINO SAYS THAT THE GUERRILLAS ARE HURTING THEMSELVES BY CARRYING OUT ATTACKS SUCH AS THE ONE PERPETRATED RECENTLY. HE SAID THE REBELS ARE ACTING LIKE OSTRICHES BY HIDING THEIR HEADS UNDER THE SAND.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MERINO] LOGICALLY THAT IS NO SOLUTION. THEY MUST REALIZE THAT THE PEOPLE HAVE REJECTED THEM. THE PEOPLE CONDEMN ALL OF THESE ACTIONS. THE LATEST ATTACKS ARE HURTING THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] ITSELF. THEY HAVE BEEN ISOLATED INTERNATIONALLY, THE PEOPLE HAVE REJECTED THEM, AND THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMY ARE FULFULLING THEIR CONSTITUTIONAL ROLE. THEREFORE, THEY MUST CONTINUE WITH THE TALKS AND PARTICIPATE IN THEM SERIOUSLY BY REACHING AGREEMENTS THAT CAN BRING PEACE TO ALL. THE TERRORIST AGGRESSION MAKES NO SENSE.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT'S POSITION? WILL IT CONTINUE WITH THE TALKS? WILL IT GO TO THE TALKS EVEN IF THE GUERRILLA COMMANDERS DO NOT ATTEND?</p><p>[MERINO] THE GOVERNMENT DEFINITELY HAS A COMMITMENT TO THE PEOPLE. IT IS A COMMITMENT THE GOVERNMENT HAS MADE. BESIDES OUR WILLINGNESS TO ACHIEVE PEACE WE ARE ALSO COMMITTED TO THESE TALKS. WE WILL CONTINUE ON THIS ROAD. IT IS CERTAINLY A DIFFICULT ROAD BUT WE MUST CONTINUE ON IT. I BELIEVE THAT THE SAN JOSE MEETING LIKE THE ONE IN CARACAS, AND MAYBE OTHERS AFTER THAT, HAS BEEN QUITE DIFFICULT. HOWEVER, WE HAVE DISCUSSED ALL THE PROBLEMS AND THE GUERRILLAS WILL LOGICALLY REACH THE CONCLUSION THAT THEY WILL HAVE TO SIT DOWN AT THE TABLE.</p><p>[REPORTER] THEY ASK FOR GUARANTEES FOR LABOR ORGANIZATIONS.</p><p>[MERINO] I BELIEVE WE CANNOT GIVE THEM MORE GUARANTEES THAN THE ONES WE HAVE ALREADY GIVEN THEM. THERE IS A GENERAL FEELING THAT THESE PEOPLE ONLY UNDERSTAND STRONG ACTIONS. HOWEVER, THE GOVERNMENT HAS REVIEWED THE SITUATION QUITE WELL, AND WE ARE NOT GOING TO FALL INTO THAT TRAP OR MAKE THAT MISTAKE. OTHERWISE, WE WOULD GIVE THEM THE OPPORTUNITY TO ACCUSE THE GOVERNMENT. WE WILL LOGICALLY BE PRUDENT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>VICE PRESIDENT MERINO SAID THAT DESPITE THE DIFFICULTIES THE GOVERNMENT IS DETERMINED TO CONTINUE THE DIALOGUE. THE FMLN GUERRILLAS WITHDREW FROM THE TALKS AND DEMANDED SECURITY FOR LABOR UNION ORGANIZATIONS FOLLOWING THE ATTACK AGAINST FENASTRAS [SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION], IN WHICH 10 LABOR UNION MEMBERS WERE KILLED, INCLUDING OPPOSITION LEADER ELIZABETH VELAZQUEZ.</p><p>NEXT WEEK, GUERRILLA LEADERS WILL MEET IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA WITH PRESIDENT OSCAR ARIAS TO SEEK SOLUTIONS TO THE COMPLEX SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR.</p></body></html>