<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0215"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0215"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0215</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0215 (ADS)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 29 MAY 89 (REUTER) -- [TEXT] THE HONDURAN ARMED FORCES TODAY CONFIRMED THAT HEAVY CLASHES TOOK PLACE BETWEEN HONDURAN AND SALVADORAN TROOPS OVER THE WEEKEND. ACCORDING TO A LOCAL RADIO STATION, BOTH HONDURAN AND SALVADORAN CIVILIANS AND SOLDIERS WERE KILLED.</p><p>JUAN SIERRA, A HONDURAN ARMED FORCES SOURCE, TOLD REUTER: "WE ARE CERTAIN THERE WERE CLASHES, BUT THE DETAILS WILL BE AVAILABLE LATER."</p><p>THE HONDURAN RADIO STATION RADIO AMERICA, QUOTING A FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] SOURCE, SAID AN UNSPECIFIED NUMBER OF CIVILIANS AND SOLDIERS WERE KILLED WHEN SALVADORAN TROOPS ENTERED HONDURAN TERRITORY ON SATURDAY.</p><p>THE FMLN, QUOTED BY RADIO AMERICA, SAID THE FIGHTING IN THE HONDURAN DEPARTMENT OF INTIBUCA, ON THE PLAINS NEAR THE SALVADORAN BORDER, LASTED 4 HOURS. DURING THE FIGHTING, A SALVADORAN HELICOPTER BOMBED HONDURAN CIVILIANS, KILLING OR WOUNDING A NUMBER OF THEM, THE FMLN SAID.</p><p>RADIO AMERICA SAID: "WE DO NOT KNOW THE EXACT NUMBER OF DEAD AND WOUNDED. (THE FMLN) ONLY SAID IT WAS CONFIRMED THAT CIVILIANS WERE KILLED OR WOUNDED IN THE CLASH."</p><p>THE TROOPS OF BOTH COUNTRIES HAVE PREVIOUSLY CLASHED AT THE BORDER AS THE RESULT OF TENSION CAUSED BY TERRITORIAL DISPUTES AND ALSO BECAUSE OF THE PRESENCE OF LARGE CONTINGENTS OF SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS NEAR THE BORDER. THE TWO ARMIES HAVE PREVIOUSLY HELD JOINT ANTIGUERRILLA OPERATIONS. ON ONE OCCASION, SALVADORAN SOLDIERS ATTACKED HONDURAN TROOPS, MISTAKING THEM FOR REBELS.</p><p>THE TENSION BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES REACHED ITS PEAK DURING THE SO-CALLED SOCCER WAR IN 1969, WHEN THE TWO COUNTRIES FOUGHT FOR 100 HOURS OVER A TERRITORIAL DISPUTE.</p></body></html>