<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0670"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0670"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0670</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0670 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 11 NOV 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [REPORT] [ROSIE CASTILLO] [TEXT] RIGHT NOW WE ARE HEARING HEAVY SHOOTING NEAR TO THE PRESIDENTIAL RESIDENCE. STRONG BOMB EXPLOSIONS AND HEAVY GUNFIRE IS BEING HEARD NEAR TO THE PRESIDENTIAL RESIDENCE. AS WE ARRIVED HERE, WE ARE TOLD THERE ARE SNIPERS ON THE HOUSES LOCATED ON EL MIRADOR STREET, AND THAT IS WHY THE SHOOTING HAS INCREASED.</p><p>WE ALSO CONTACTED THE CHIEF OF PUBLIC SECURITY OF THE MILITARY ACADEMY LOCATED IN SANTA TECLA, AND HE TOLD US THAT RIGHT NOW, THE ATTACK HAS BEEN REPELLED BY THE ARMED FORCES. THERE ARE NO CASUALTIES ON EITHER SIDE, COLONEL SOTO MARTINEZ HAS TOLD US.</p><p>WE HAVE ALSO CONFIRMED THAT THE CENTRAL ELECTORAL COUNCIL WAS NOT ATTACKED, BUT THERE WAS AN ATTACK AGAINST THE ELECTORAL PROGRAM OFFICES WHERE SOME BOMBS WERE DETONATED. THERE ARE NO REPORTS OF CASUALTIES OR OTHER DETAILS.</p><p>HOWEVER, CONCERNING THE ATTACK ON THE PRESIDENTIAL RESIDENCE, THAT IS LOCATED NEAR EL MIRADOR STREET, IT IS SAID THAT RIGHT NOW IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO GO BY THE AREA, AS THERE ARE SNIPERS ON TOP OF THE HOUSES NEXT TO THE PRESIDENTIAL RESIDENCE. THERE ARE STRONG EXPLOSIONS AND GUNFIRE, AND THE PRESIDENTIAL RESIDENCE IS THE TARGET. THE SECURITY CORPS ARE NOT ALLOWING ANYONE TO GO THROUGH EL MIRADOR STREET AS THEY ARE NOT ALLOWING ANYONE NEAR THE PRESIDENTIAL RESIDENCE.</p><p>THERE ARE ALSO SECURITY CORPS MEMBERS IN THE JUSTICE MINISTRY, WHICH IS CLOSE TO THE PRESIDENTIAL RESIDENCE. WE HAVE OBSERVED THAT THEY ARE FIRING THEIR WEAPONS TO REPEL THE SIMULTANEOUS ATTACKS BY THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT].</p><p>WE HAVE ALSO CONTACTED PEOPLE NEAR THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY, AND THEY TOLD US THAT GUNFIRE EXCHANGES HAVE BEEN HEARD AT THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY AND THE SAN CARLOS GARRISON [SITE OF THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE]. THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE GOING TO THE ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD SHOULD BEAR IN THE MIND THAT THE ATTACKS ARE TAKING PLACE AT THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY AND THE SURROUNDING AREA, AS WELL AS AT THE SAN CARLOS GARRISON.</p></body></html>