<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1098"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1098"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1098</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1098 (UNISYS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 11 FEB 90 (DPA) -- [TEXT] COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS SAID HE WILL ASK U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH -- DURING THE 15 FEBRUARY DRUG SUMMIT TO BE HELD IN CARTAGENA -- FOR GREATER ASSISTANCE TO BOLIVIA AND PERU, THE WORLD'S BIGGEST PRODUCERS OF COCA LEAVES.</p><p>DURING AN INFORMAL TALK WITH NEWSMEN, BARCO SAID THAT AT THE SUMMIT HE WILL ASK PRESIDENT BUSH TO PROVIDE ECONOMIC AND MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO FIGHT THE "WAR" HE HIMSELF DECLARED ON DRUG- TRAFFICKING MAFIAS AFTER VARIOUS TERRORIST ACTIONS LAST AUGUST.</p><p>ALTHOUGH HE DID NOT SPECIFY THE KIND OF AID OR HOW IT SHOULD BE PROVIDED, BARCO VARGAS SAID THE ECONOMIC MEASURES HE WILL ASK FOR WOULD CONCENTRATE ON A GREATER OPENING OF THE U.S. MARKET TO EXPORTS FROM ANDEAN COUNTRIES AFFECTED BY PRODUCTION AND CHEMICAL PROCESSING OF COCAINE.</p><p>IN ADDITION TO PRESIDENTS BUSH AND BARCO, BOLIVIAN PRESIDENT JAIME PAZ ZAMORA AND PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA WILL ALSO ATTEND THE SUMMIT. THEY ARE EXPECTED TO PRESENT PROPOSALS ON THE SUBSTITUTION OF OTHER CROPS FOR COCA LEAVES -- THE BASE FOR MAKING COCAINE -- WHILE BEARING IN MIND THE ECONOMIC WELL-BEING AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF PEASANTS ENGAGED IN THIS ACTIVITY.</p><p>THE FOUR PRESIDENTS WILL MEET FOR NO LONGER THAN FIVE HOURS AND WILL SIGN A DOCUMENT IN WHICH THEY WILL DEFINE STRATEGIES TO DEVELOP AN OVERALL STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>ACCORDING TO UNOFFICIAL REPORTS, THE POINTS THAT WILL BE INCLUDED IN THE JOINT DOCUMENT INCLUDE STRENGTHENING ANDEAN ECONOMIES BY INCREASING EXPORTS, AND THE "TOTAL STRUGGLE" AGAINST INTERNATIONAL DRUG-TRAFFICKING GANGS BY REDUCING DEMAND, CONSUMPTION, AND SUPPLY OF HALLUCINOGENIC DRUGS.</p><p>BARCO VARGAS SAID INDUSTRIALIZED NATIONS SHOULD "ESPECIALLY HELP THE FRATERNAL COUNTRIES OF BOLIVIA AND PERU, WHICH HAVE GREAT NEEDS."</p><p>ONE OF THE COLOMBIAN OBJECTIVES AT THE ANTIDRUG SUMMIT WILL BE TO MAKE THE UNITED STATES UNDERSTAND ITS CORESPONSIBILITY FOR THE SERIOUS COCAINE-TRAFFICKING PROBLEM BECAUSE OF ITS ALMOST 14.5 MILLION DRUG ADDICTS AND BECAUSE OF ITS SALES OF WEAPONS AND CHEMICAL COMPONENTS -- WHICH SEEM TO HAVE NO OFFICIAL CONTROL -- TO MAFIAS.</p><p>AT LEAST 5,000 MEN FROM COLOMBIAN SECURITY CORPS ARE ALREADY PATROLLING STRATEGIC SITES IN CARTAGENA TO PREVENT ANY ACT OF TERRORISM THAT COULD BE PERPETRATED BY THE DRUG CARTELS DURING THE SUMMIT.</p></body></html>