<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1261"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1261"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1261</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1261 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 3 MAY 90 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [TEXT] THE YOUNG MILITARY OFFICERS WHO HAVE CIRCULATED A 5-PAGE LETTER OUTLINING THEIR VIEWS CONTEND THAT THE VIOLATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE NEGLECT IN CORRECTING WRONGDOINGS COMMITTED BY THE U.S. ADVISERS AND EMBASSY ARE THE MAIN PROBLEMS KEEPING THE COUNTRY MIRED IN WAR. THE OFFICERS ADD THAT THEY DO NOT TRUST THE CURRENT U.S. AMBASSADOR, WHOM THEY ACCUSE OF BETRAYING TRUTH AND JUSTICE IN THE COUNTRY IN CONNECTION WITH THE LATEST DEVELOPMENTS.</p><p>THE OFFICERS NOTE THE DIPLOMAT'S POSITION REGARDING THE CASE OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS; HOW HE FAILED TO DENOUNCE A COLONEL WHO ACCIDENTALLY DISCOVERED THE CULPRITS AND HOW, LATELY, HE HAS WARNED THE HIGH COMMAND ABOUT SOME INFORMATION THAT WAS GOING TO BE MADE PUBLIC BY A U.S. NETWORK.</p><p>THE LETTER, WHICH WAS RELEASED DURING THE LAST FEW HOURS AND IS DATED 1 MAY, EXPRESSES THE YOUNG ARMY OFFICERS SUPPORT FOR COLONEL SIGIFREDO OCHOA PEREZ, AFTER THE DEFENSE MINISTRY, WITH THE BLESSING OF SEVERAL COMMANDERS, DECIDED TO TAKE THE CURRENT PRESIDENT OF CEL [LEMPA RIVER HYDROELECTRIC EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE] TO TASK PUBLICLY. IN THEIR LETTER, THE OFFICERS STATE THAT THEY AGREE COMPLETELY WITH THE FORMER MILITARY COMMANDER REGARDING WHICH SENIOR OFFICERS GIVE ORDERS TO JUNIOR OFFICERS.</p><p>WE ARE OBEDIENT AND NONCONFRONTATIONAL AND THAT IS WHY WE CONTINUE TO OBEY ORDERS FROM SUPERIORS, BUT THIS MUST STOP WHEN THE VIOLATION OF PRINCIPLES AND RIGHTS ARE INVOLVED, SAYS THE CALL FROM THE YOUNG OFFICERS TO THE PRESIDENT AND HIGH COMMAND.</p><p>THE EXTENSIVE DOCUMENT DELIVERED TO THE MEDIA BY THE SELF-STYLED DOMINGO MONTERROSA LIVES MOVEMENT SAYS THAT TWO OF THE OFFICERS IT MENTIONS WERE REMOVED FROM THEIR POSTS IN THE MILITARY ORDER OF 30 APRIL. THE YOUNG OFFICERS PROVIDE NO FURTHER DETAILS BUT MAKE SOME ALLUSIONS TO MISSIONS CONDUCTED WHILE THEY DID THEIR DUTIES.</p><p>THE DOCUMENT SAYS THAT SOME OF THE SENIOR OFFICERS WHO ARE OBTAINING MONEY ILLEGALLY MUST STOP AND MENTIONS THE NAMES OF FORMER MILITARY OFFICERS WHO ARE NOW LIVING AND ENJOYING THEIR WEALTH IN EXILE. THE DOCUMENT SAYS THAT THE CONTRADICTION RAISED BY THE ABOVE IS THE LUCK OF SOME GENTLEMEN OFFICERS WHO, AT THE END OF THEIR SERVICE, LIVE ABROAD AND ENJOY THEIR POSITIONS WITHOUT ANY QUESTION. THE DOCUMENT ASKS HOW SOME FORMER OFFICERS ARE ABLE TO LIVE SO WELL WHEN WE KNOW THEY GRADUATED FROM OUR MILITARY ALMA MATER.</p><p>THE CASE OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS IS ALSO EXAMINED IN THEIR LETTER. THEY NOTE THAT THE IDENTITY OF THE CULPRITS BECAME KNOWN SHORTLY AFTER THE MURDER, BUT SOME OF THE SENIOR OFFICERS WITHHELD IMPORTANT INFORMATION FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC AND ARMED FORCES COMMANDER IN CHIEF. A FEW HOURS AFTER THE MURDER, MANY OF US SUSPECTED WHAT HAD HAPPENED. WE, THE YOUNG OFFICERS, HAVE THE BEST SOURCES OF INFORMATION AND MANY OF US DID NOT THINK THAT THE CASE WOULD HAVE ANY MAJOR IMPACT BECAUSE THE ACTIVISM OF THE PRIESTS WITH THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL FRONT [FMLN] WAS WELL-KNOWN. HOWEVER, THERE WAS CAUSE FOR CONCERN ALMOST IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE CRIME BECAME KNOWN. THE PRIESTS' MURDER WAS DESCRIBED AS IRRATIONAL AND SENSELESS BECAUSE OPEN FIGHTING AGAINST TERRORISM IS ONE THING AND THE STRUGGLE AGAINST THE IDEOLOGISTS IS ANOTHER.</p><p>THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE REPUBLIC MADE UP THE STORY ABOUT THE FMLN HATCHING A PLOT TO MURDER THE SAN SALVADOR BISHOPS IN AN ATTEMPT TO DISTRACT ATTENTION FROM THE KILLING OF THE PRIESTS, THE LETTER SAYS. THE ATTORNEY GENERAL COULD NOT BE REACHED FOR COMMENT ABOUT THIS. AS STATED BY THE YOUNG OFFICERS, WHEN THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S IDEA WAS RAISED, IT WAS POINTED OUT THAT IT WOULD NOT BE CREDIBLE. THIS WAS TREATED AS A CHILDISH AND ILLOGICAL WAY OUT. THE GROSS LIE MADE UP BY THE ATTORNEY GENERAL WAS NEVER CONSIDERED A PRACTICAL OPTION, THE DOCUMENT SAYS.</p><p>THE SELF-STYLED DOMINGO MONTERROSA LIVES MOVEMENT HAS SENT THE LETTER TO PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI, THE ASSEMBLY, AND THE ARMED FORCES HIGH COMMAND, ASKING THEM TO MEASURE THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE POSITION ASSUMED BY THE U.S. EMBASSY AND VARIOUS SECTORS OF THE COUNTRY REGARDING MILITARY AID. THE YOUNG OFFICERS HAVE TAKEN THE NAME OF THE CHARISMATIC OFFICER WHO DIED WHEN HIS HELICOPTER WAS ATTACKED WHILE FLYING OVER THE AREA OF CACAOPERA, IN THE NORTHERN PART OF THE COUNTRY'S EASTERN REGION.</p><p>IN THEIR EXTENSIVE DOCUMENT THE YOUNG OFFICERS ASK PRESIDENT CRISTINI NOT TO BE DECEIVED BY REPORTS FROM THE HIGH COMMAND MEMBERS OF LA TANDONA [NAME GIVEN TO 1966 GRADUATES OF CAPTAIN GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY ACADEMY].</p></body></html>