<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0035"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0035"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0035</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0035 (NOSC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 13 JAN 90 -- [TEXT] THE NEW FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] PROPOSAL TO STOP FIGHTING PROVIDED THE U.S. CONGRESS SUSPENDS AID TO EL SALVADOR IS BLACKMAIL. WITH THIS, HE SAID, THE FMLN IS SHOWING TO THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY THAT ITS MEMBERS ARE PLAIN TERRORISTS.</p><p>THIS WAS SAID ON 12 JANUARY BY THE RULING NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE PRESIDENT DR ARMANDO CALDERON SOL, WHO MAINTAINED THAT ASPIRATIONS OF THE SUBSERSIVES ARE "DETESTABLE," AND, THEREFORE, CANNOT BE ACCEPTED.</p><p>THE PROMINENT POLITICAL LEADER SAID THAT WHILE IN EAST EUROPE THERE IS A TRUE DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTION, THE FMLN MAINTAINS ITS POSITION OF TRYING TO SUBDUE THE PEOPLE WITH A TOTALITARIAN PLAN THROUGH VIOLENT MEANS. "HISTORY HAS LEFT THEM BEHIND AND THEY (THE TERRORISTS) HAVE NOT NOTICED IT," HE ADDED.</p><p>CALDERON SOL EMPHASIZED THAT FMLN LEADERS SHOULD RECONSIDER THE POSITION THEY HAVE MAINTAINED AND SHOULD RESPECT THE JUDICIAL SYSTEM BECAUSE WITHOUT IT, NO NATION CAN ACHIEVE HARMONY AND DEVELOPMENT.</p><p>THE SEDITIOUS "SHOULD UNDERSTAND THAT THEY ARE ALONE AND THAT NO ONE SUPPORTS THEIR ANARCHIC PLAN," THE ARENA PRESIDENT ADDED. HE RECALLED THAT DURING THE TERRORIST AGGRESSION, THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY SUPORTED THE ALFREDO CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN NEVER RECEIVED ANY SUPPORT.</p><p>CALDERON SOL STRESSED THAT THE FMLN MUST PROVIDE REAL PROOF THAT IT WANTS TO REACH PEACE THROUGH NEGOTIATED MEANS, BECAUSE PRESIDENT CRISTIANI HAS GOOD INTENTIONS AND WANTS TO SOLVE THE CONFLICT AS SOON AS POSSIBLE THROUGH TALKS.</p><p>THE SUBVERSIVES MUST SUSPEND THE AGGRESSION AGAINST THE PEOPLE AND THE DESTRUCTION OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMY, BECAUSE ONE CANNOT BE AT THE NEGOTIATING TABLE WHILE THE FMLN AT THE SAME TIME IS PREPARING AN OFFENSIVE.</p></body></html>