<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1257"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1257"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MEXICO CITY (MEXICO)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1257</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1257 (BOEING)</p><p>MEXICO CITY (MEXICO), 2 MAY 90 (NOTIMEX) -- [EXCERPTS] SAN SALVADOR, 2 MAY (NOTIMEX) -- INTENSE CLASHES WERE HAVE BEEN REPORTED IN SAN SALVADOR AND OTHER PARTS OF THE COUNTRY WITHIN THE LAST FEW HOURS. THIS IS A NEW MILITARY MANEUVER BY THE GUERILLAS TO PRESSURE THE GOVERNMENT INTO RENEWING THE DIALOGUE.</p><p>AT LEAST 10 SOLDIERS WERE KILLED AS A RESULT OF THE HARASSMENT AND ATTACKS BY THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION MOVEMENT] IN SEVEN OF THE COUNTRY'S 14 DEPARTMENTS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL SOURCES, THE ATTACKS WERE ACCOMPANIED BY SABOTAGE TO THE ELECTRIC SERVICE SYSTEM. THE ATTACKS STARTED AT 2030 ON 2 MAY AND CONTINUED UNTIL LATE THIS MORNING. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>THE NATIONAL ENERGY ENTERPRISE REPORTED THAT ELECTRIC POWER WILL BE RATIONED FOR AT LEAST FOUR HOURS DURING THIS MORNING IN MOST OF THE CAPITAL AND OTHER DEPARTMENTS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.</p><p>MEANWHILE, FMLN SPOKESMEN MADE A TELEPHONE CALL TO A LOCAL RADIO STATION REPORTING THAT THE MILITARY MANEUVER UNLEASHED ON THE NATIONAL LEVEL IS AIMED AT PRESSURING THE ALFREDO CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT TO RENEW THE DIALOGUE.</p><p>TALKS BETWEEN THE FNLM AND THE GOVERNMENT ARE SCHEDULED TO START DURING THE FIRST PART OF THIS MONTH, ACCORDING TO UN SECRETARY GENERAL JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR, WHO IS ACTING AS A MEDIATOR.</p><p>PEREZ DE CUELLAR'S PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE, ALVARO DE SOTO, TODAY WILL DELIVER TO PRESIDENT CRISTINAI AN FMLN PROPOSAL TO PROMOTE THE DIALOGUE.</p></body></html>