<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1182"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1182"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1182</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1182 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>BOGOTA, NO DATE (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [INTERVIEW WITH LLOREDA BY REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [REPORTER] AMID ALL THE CONFUSION AND ALARM THAT TODAY PREVAILS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY, WHAT WOULD DR. LLOREDA DO TO RESTORE PUBLIC TRANQUILITY? WHAT IS THE IMMEDIATE AND MOST URGENT THING TO DO?</p><p>[LLOREDA] JUAN, I BELIEVE THAT SECURITY IS NO LONGER AN ACADEMIC ISSUE; IT HAS BECOME AN ANGUISHED NEED FOR COLOMBIA. THIS WILL PROBABLY MEAN THAT WE WILL HAVE TO MAKE MANY SACRIFICES IF WE WANT TO PUT A STOP TO VIOLENCE WITHIN A FEW YEARS. IN FACT, WE WILL HAVE TO SACRIFICE SOME OF THE BROAD AND GENEROUS FREEDOM WE HAVE ALWAYS ENJOYED IN THIS COUNTRY. GIVEN THESE DEPLORABLE ACTIONS, THE SECURITY ISSUE HAS BECOME A PRIORITY, BECAUSE ONE CANNOT LIVE IN A SOCIETY IN WHICH ITS MEMBERS ARE CONTINUOUSLY THREATENED. THIS NOT ONLY REFERS TO DR. JARAMILLO OSSA'S DEATH, BUT ALSO TO OTHER DEATHS THAT SOMETIMES DO NOT APPEAR WHERE THEY SHOULD, MEANING THE FRONT PAGE OF THE NEWSPAPERS.</p><p>A WEEK OR TWO AGO THE POLICE SAID THAT WE HAVE HAD AN AVERAGE OF 54 VIOLENT DEATHS PER DAY SO FAR THIS YEAR. IF THIS CONTINUES, WE WILL HAVE MORE THAN 12,000 MURDERS IN COLOMBIA BY THE TIME PRESIDENT BARCO TURNS OVER POWER ON 7 AUGUST. I BELIEVE, AND I THINK YOU SHARE THE SAME VIEWPOINT, THAT WE HAVE A WORLD RECORD FOR INSECURITY AND VIOLENCE. THEREFORE, WE CANNOT TAKE THE RISK OF ALLOWING THE PROCESS OF MORAL COLLAPSE AND THE STATE OF INSECURITY THAT PREVAILS IN THE COUNTRY TO CONTINUE.</p><p>WE MUST STRENGTHEN THE STATE SO THAT IT CAN SUCCESSFULLY COUNTER VIOLENCE. THE PLEBISCITE AND THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY I HAVE BEEN PROPOSING INCLUDES THE NEED FOR THE STATE TO HAVE EFFICIENT INSTRUMENTS TO COUNTER VIOLENT ACTIONS. THIS IS NOT, LIKE I SAID IN THE BEGINNING, AN ACADEMIC ISSUE; AND IT IS NOT A PROPOSAL PRESENTED BY IDEALISTIC YOUTHS. IT IS THE EXPRESSION OF A NATION THAT COULD DISAPPEAR OR LOSE ITS FREEDOMS AND DEMOCRACY, IF WE DO NOT ACT DECISIVELY AND RESOLUTELY. THIS IS NOT A PROBLEM BETWEEN POLITICAL PARTIES.</p><p>YESTERDAY I PRESENTED MY GOVERNMENT PLATFORM AND I ISSUED A PROPOSAL TO DR. [CESAR] GAVIRIA -- REGARDLESS OF THE 27 MAY ELECTORAL RESULTS, WE MUST REACH A PATRIOTIC AGREEMENT. WE CAN NOW DO IT IN HOMAGE TO BERNARDO JARAMILLO SO THAT THE IDEA OF A PLEBISCITE IS SPONSORED. THUS, WE WILL BE ABLE TO MAKE A THOROUGH INSTITUTIONAL REORGANIZATION. WE MUST SIT DOWN AND THINK ABOUT COLOMBIA, RATHER THAN ELECTORAL LEADERS AND ORGANIZATIONS. THIS IS THE ONLY WAY WE CAN OFFER SOLUTIONS TO FUTURE GENERATIONS, BECAUSE THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE ARE NOW LOOKING TO THEIR FUTURE WITH UNCERTAINTY AND FEAR.</p><p>[REPORTER] THANK YOU, DR. LLOREDA, YOU ARE VERY KIND.</p><p>[LLOREDA] THANK YOU.</p></body></html>