<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0147"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0147"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="EL PARAISO (EL SALVADOR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0147</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0147 (BELLCORE)</p><p>EL PARAISO (EL SALVADOR), 19 MAR 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] COLONEL ALEXANDER MENDEZ, COMMANDER OF THE 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE, THE MAIN GARRISON IN THE NORTHERN PART OF THE COUNTRY, HAS TOLD ACAN-EFE THAT OVER 500 GUERRILLA FIGHTERS ATTACKED TWO TOWNS IN CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT HOURS BEFORE THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS STARTED.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE OFFICER, THE CLASHES, WHICH BEGAN AT 2200 LAST NIGHT AND ENDED AT 0500 TODAY, RESULTED IN THE DEATH OF SEVEN REBELS AND ONE SOLDIER NEAR THE TOWNS OF TEJUTLA AND SAN MIGUEL DE MERCEDES. ALEXANDER MENDEZ SAID AT THE EL PARAISO GARRISON THAT THE HIGH NUMBER OF GUERRILLA FIGHTERS INCLUDED "ATTACKERS AND OTHERS WHO PROVIDE COOPERATION AND CARE FOR THE WOUNDED."</p><p>THE OFFICER REPORTED 17 CASUALTIES, INCLUDING 9 WOUNDED SOLDIERS.</p><p>A PEASANT WOMAN DIED WHEN A BOMB EXPLODED IN HER KITCHEN DURING THE ATTACK ON SAN MIGUEL DE MERCEDES. THE EXPLOSION ALSO BLEW OFF HER SONS' LEGS, THE MILITARY COMMANDER SAID.</p><p>MENDEZ STATED THAT FIVE HOUSES WERE DESTROYED DURING THE ATTACK ON SAN MIGUEL DE MERCEDES, 7 KM FROM THE CAPITAL OF CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN OFFICER CONFIRMED THAT THREE U.S. MILITARY ADVISERS HAD TRAVELED TO CHALATENANGO TO HELP COUNTER THE GUERRILLA OFFENSIVE.</p><p>ACAN-EFE WAS ABLE TO ASCERTAIN THAT ONE OF THE OFFICERS INCLUDED A U.S. AIR FORCE COLONEL, WHO WAS WEARING FATIGUES AND CARRYING AN AR-15 RIFLE ON HIS SHOULDER.</p><p>MENDEZ ASSERTED THAT THERE ARE USUALLY FOUR U.S. MILITARY ADVISERS AT THE 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE, AND ADDED THAT THEY ARE ALLOWED TO CARRY WEAPONS LIKE THE AR-15 "WHENEVER THE CIRCUMSTANCES REQUIRE IT," ALTHOUGH THEY MAY NOT PARTICIPATE IN OFFENSIVE OPERATIONS.</p><p>THE CLASHES CAUSED PANIC AMONG PEOPLE IN CHALATENANGO WHO COULD HEAR THE HEAVY FIRING BETWEEN THE GUERRILLAS AND THE SALVADORAN ARMY SHORTLY AFTER THE VOTING TABLES OPENED.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE SALVADORAN OFFICER, LAST NIGHT'S GUERRILLA ATTACK IS "ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT IN THE LATEST OFFENSIVE" LAUNCHED BY THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT IN SEPTEMBER.</p><p>MENDEZ SAID THAT THE GUERRILLA ATTACK WAS CARRIED OUT WITH NUMEROUS WEAPONS. HE EMPHASIZED THE USE OF THE NEW AK-M RIFLES, "A NEW VERSION OF THE FAMOUS GDR-MADE AK-47."</p></body></html>