<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0036"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0036"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0036</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0036 (NOSC)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 13 JAN 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE GUATEMALAN FOREIGN MINISTRY CONDEMNED TODAY THE ASSASSINATION OF LEFTIST SALVADORAN LEADER HECTOR OQUELI AND GUATEMALAN POLITICAL LEADER GILDA FLORES.</p><p>BOTH BODIES WERE FOUND TODAY IN AN AREA NEAR GUATEMALA AND EL SALVADOR BORDER AFTER THE VICTIMS WERE KIDNAPPED IN GUATEMALA CITY YESTERDAY.</p><p>A FOREIGN MINISTRY COMMUNIQUE "REGRETS AND CONDEMNS" THE ASSASSINATION OF OQUELI, ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL FOR LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN, AND DEPUTY SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT (MNR), A LEFTIST MOVEMENT IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>"WE DEEPLY REGRET THE DEATHS OF TWO VALUABLE PERSONS, AND WE CONDEMN THIS ACT OF VIOLENCE," THE NOTE ADDS.</p><p>THE DOCUMENT IS THE FIRST OFFICIAL REACTION TO THE KIDNAPPING AND ASSASSINATION OF BOTH LEADERS.</p><p>GILDA FLORES WAS AN ACTIVE MEMBER OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST PARTY (PSD) OF GUATEMALA, WHOSE SECRETARY GENERAL MARIO SOLORZANO REPORTED THAT "SALVADORAN PARAMILITARY GROUPS" ARE CARRYING OUT ACTIONS IN THIS COUNTRY.</p><p>ACCORDING TO SOLORZANO, THE INCIDENT "SHOWS THERE IS COOPERATION BETWEEN PARAMILITARY GROUPS OF BOTH COUNTRIES," BECAUSE THE PERPETRATORS KNEW OF OQUELI'S ARRIVAL "AND THEY STAGED AN ENTIRE OPERATION TO KIDNAP HIM."</p><p>THE BODIES OF THE POLITICAL LEADERS WERE FOUND EARLY THIS MORNING WITH SHOTS THROUGH THE TEMPLE IN THE GUATEMALAN TOWN OF JALPATAGUA, NEAR THE BORDER WITH EL SALVADOR, OQUELI'S RELATIVES TOLD EFE IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>OQUELI ARRIVED IN GUATEMALA LAST THURSDAY. ON FRIDAY MORNING, WHILE ON HIS WAY TO LA AURORA AIRPORT TO CATCH A PLANE TO NICARAGUA, HE WAS KIDNAPPED BY "HEAVILY ARMED MEN," ACCORDING TO THE MNR.</p></body></html>