<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0248"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0248"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAO PAULO (BRAZIL)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0248</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0248 (ADS)</p><p>SAO PAULO (BRAZIL), 14 JUN 89 (FOLHA DE SAO PAULO) -- [TEXT] THE ARGENTINA GOVERNMENT HAS SENT TO BRAZIL A REQUEST OF PREVENTIVE IMPRISONMENT FOR THE EXTRADITION OF 16 PEOPLE (14 ARGENTINES AND 2 FRENCHMEN) CHARGED WITH BELONGING TO THE "ALL FOR THE FATHERLAND" TERRORIST GROUP. THE MEN ARE BELIEVED TO HAVE TAKEN PART IN THE ATTACK ON THE LA TABLADA MILITARY UNIT IN BUENOS AIRES PROVINCE LAST JANUARY.</p><p>AT THE ARGENTINE GOVERNMENT'S REQUEST, FERNANDO CARLOS FALCO WAS ARRESTED ON 9 JUNE. HE REMAINS IN CUSTODY IN FEDERAL POLICE QUARTERS IN BRASILIA, AND HE IS WAITING THE EXTRADITION RULING, WHICH WILL BE MADE BY THE FEDERAL SUPREME CORT (STF).</p><p>ANOTHER ARGENTINE, DAMIAN MAGUE, WHO WAS ALSO INVOLVED IN THE LA TABLADA ATTACK, WAS ARRESTED WITH FALCO ON THE SAME DAY. MAGUE WAS RELEASED BECAUSE THE ARGENTINE GOVERNMENT DID NOT REQUEST HIS PREVENTIVE IMPRISONMENT, THE STF SAID. IN FALCO'S CASE, THE ARGENTINE COURTS HAVE 45 DAYS TO SEND THE STF A COPY OF THE LEGAL CASE AGAINST HIM. THE TRIAL WILL BE BASED ON THE LEGAL EXTRADITION REQUISITES AND NOT ON THE CRIMINAL ACCUSATIONS AGAINST FALCO.</p></body></html>