<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0325"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0325"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-31"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0325</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0325 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 31 JUL 89 (EL MUNDO) -- [TEXT] "I DO NOT WANT TO INTERFERE AT ALL. THE JUDGE WILL PRONOUNCE THE VERDICT; MEANWHILE, I WILL WAIT AND KEEP SILENT," MSGR GREGORIO ROSA CHAVEZ, AUXILIARY BISHOP OF SAN SALVADOR, SAID YESTERDAY REGARDING HIS BROTHER SHORTLY AFTER ENDING SUNDAY'S [30 JULY] HOMILY AT THE CATHEDRAL.</p><p>THE PRELATE WAS REFERRING TO THE ARREST OF SALOMON ENRIQUE ROSA CHAVEZ, WHO WAS TURNED OVER TO THE FIRST CRIMINAL COURT BY THE NATIONAL POLICE AND ACCUSED OF BELONGING TO THE PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY ARMY (ERP). THE FIRST CRIMINAL COURT JUDGE ORDERED HIS TEMPORARY ARREST FOLLOWING A 72 - HOUR PERIOD, AS ESTABLISHED BY LAW FOR CRIMES OF BEARING COUNTERFEIT DOCUMENTS AND FOR BRIBERY; THESE CRIMES DO NOT REQUIRE A PRISON SENTENCE.</p><p>THE AUXILIARY BISHOP SAID: "I HAVE REMAINED SILENT OUT OF RESPECT FOR THE LEGAL PROCESS, WHICH IS STILL UNDER WAY. MY BROTHER IS STILL IN PRISON, AND THAT IS WHY I PREFER TO WAIT FOR THE PROCESS TO END," HE SAID. THE PRISONER WAS NOT RELEASED ON SATURDAY, BUT HE WILL BE RELASED ON MONDAY, 7 AUGUST.</p><p>ASKED BY REPORTERS IF THE CHARGES MADE AGAINST HIS BROTHER WOULD HURT HIS [MSGR ROSA CHAVEZ'S] IMAGE OR THAT OF THE CHURCH, HE SAID THAT THE CHURCH'S DUTY TO THE COUNTRY IS DIFFICULT TO FULFILL BUT THAT THE CHURCH'S EFFORTS MUST CONTINUE, BECAUSE THE HUGE NUMBER OF PARISHIONERS WHO COME TO THE CATHEDRAL EVERY SUNDAY TO EASE THEIR PAINS CANNOT BE ABANDONED.</p><p>"A SHEPHERD SHOULD NEVER LEAVE HIS FLOCK, AND, WHEN THERE ARE PROBLEMS, WE WILL CALMLY DEAL WITH THEM, BECAUSE THAT IS PART OF OUR MISSION," HE SAID.</p><p>THE PRELATE EXPRESSED HIS CONCERN OVER THE SERIES OF CONTROVERSIES THAT AROSE DURING THE WEEK, SUCH AS THE CHARGES AND THE COUNTERCHARGES. HE SAID THAT THE MOST SERIOUS THING IS THE "CASE OF MSGR ROMERO," WHOSE MEMORY CONTINUES TO INSPIRE MANY AND IS A NIGHTMARE FOR THE MASTERMINDS AND PERPETRATORS OF HIS ABOMINABLE ASSASSINATION.</p><p>THESE CHARGES WERE MADE AT THE HIGHEST LEVEL BY FORMER PRESIDENT DUARTE, CURRENT ADMINISTRATION MEMBERS, AND WELL-KNOWN POLITICAL FIGURES. ROSA CHAVEZ REFERRED TO THE CHARGES FILED BY ATTORNEY GENERAL DR MAURICIO ERNESTO COLORADO, WHO LAST WEEK ASKED THE FIRST TREASURY COURT JUDGE TO DRAW UP AN INDICTMENT AGAINST JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE, MEMBERS OF HIS FAMILY, AND A CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY LEADER.</p><p>THE AUXILIARY BISHOP SAID: "I GREATLY REGRET THE FACT THAT THIS ATMOSPHERE IS ONE OF -- I ACCUSE YOU, YOU ACCUSE ME, AND WE ACCUSE EACH OTHER. THAT IS NO WAY TO MAKE PROGRESS, BECAUSE PEOPLE EXPECT THEIR LEADERS TO BE MORE RESPONSIBLE AND SERIOUS. OTHERWISE, WHAT WILL THOSE OF US WHO ARE UNDERLINGS LEARN? THAT IS WHY I HAVE EXPRESSED THE NEED FOR ALL OF US TO HELP CLEAR THE AIR SO THAT WE CAN ACHIEVE THE PEACE FOR WHICH WE ALL YEARN."</p><p>MSGR ROSA CHAVEZ CONGRATULATED ALL JOURNALISTS IN HIS HOMILY AND SAID: "I REMIND ALL JOURNALISTS -- AS POPE JOHN PAUL II ONCE SAID -- THAT NEWS, IF ONE THINKS ABOUT IT, IS NEVER IMPARTIAL, BECAUSE IT AT LEAST INTENTIONALLY AND IMPLICITLY RESPONDS TO IMPORTANT MATTERS. JOURNALISM PROVIDES AN INTIMATE LINK BETWEEN THE NEWS, EDUCATION, AND ESSENTIAL VALUES. ALMOST ALL MEN AND WOMEN WORKING FOR THE PRESS, RADIO, AND TELEVISION MEDIA MUST TRY TO ACCOMPLISH THIS TASK. HOWEVER, EACH DAY THEY NEED COURAGE AND MUST HAVE MUCH LOVE FOR THIS PEOPLE, WHO HAVE SUFFERED GREATLY, SO THAT THEY WILL REMAIN LOYAL TO THE VALUES OF THEIR PROFESSION. THAT IS WHY OUR CONGRATULATION MESSAGE BECOMES A PRAYER FOR THE LORD TO PROTECT THEM AND HELP THEM NOT TO GIVE IN DURING DIFFICULT TIMES."</p></body></html>