<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0544"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0544"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0544</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0544 (UMASS)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 5 OCT 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] GUATEMALAN SECURITY FORCES TODAY DECLARED A "GENERAL ALERT" AFTER A RADIO STATION IN THE CAPITAL RECEIVED A PHONE CALL IN WHICH AN UNIDENTIFIED PERSON THREATENED A GENERALIZED ATTACK ON RADIO STATIONS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.</p><p>ODILIO DELEON, 42, AN ANNOUNCER FOR RADIO CULTURAL, TOLD THE POLICE THAT HE RECEIVED A PHONE CALL YESTERDAY IN WHICH AN ATTACK ON RADIO STATIONS WAS THREATENED. NO REASON FOR THE THREAT WAS GIVEN.</p><p>POLICE SOURCES SAID THAT IN VIEW OF THIS REPORT, SECURITY FORCES WERE ALERTED AND INVESTIGATIONS BEGUN TO IDENTIFY THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS PLAN.</p><p>OVER 20 MONTHS AGO, THE OPERATOR OF A TRANMISSION TOWER FOR CHANNEL 7 TELEVISION WAS KILLED BY A HIGH-POWERED BOMB DETONATED BY UNIDENTIFIED PERSONS.</p><p>THE HOME OF ROLANDO ARCHILA, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF GUATEMALA'S EMISORAS UNIDAS, THE RADIO STATION WITH THE LARGEST AUDIENCE IN THE COUNTRY, WAS DAMAGED IN A TERRORIST ATTACK.</p><p>THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT ATTRIBUTED THESE ACTIONS TO "EXTREME RIGHTIST" GROUPS SEEKING TO "DESTABILIZE THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS INITIATED IN JANUARY, 1986," AFTER 2 DECADES OF MILITARY REGIMES.</p><p>SO FAR, IT IS NOT KNOWN IF THE THREAT TO THE RADIO STATIONS WAS MADE BY THOSE GROUPS, OR IF IT CAME FROM THE EXTREME LEFT (THE GUERRILLAS).</p></body></html>