<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0539"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0539"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0539</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0539 (UMASS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 1 OCT 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE COLOMBIAN NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY [ELN] GUERRILLA MOVEMENT, WHICH KIDNAPPED SPANISH BUSINESSMAN PABLO MARTIN BERROCAL ALMOST 2 MONTHS AGO IN QUITO, IS DEMANDING 1 BILLION PESETAS RANSOM FOR HIS RELEASE.</p><p>SOURCES CLOSE TO THE REBEL GROUP, THE ONLY ONE THAT HAS NOT JOINED THE GOVERNMENT'S PEACE PROCESS IN COLOMBIA, TOLD EFE THAT NEGOTIATIONS FOR HIS RELEASE ARE BEING CARRIED OUT IN AN UNIDENTIFIED BORDER TOWN.</p><p>COLOMBIAN GUERRILLAS, DISGUISED AS POLICEMEN, KIDNAPPED THE 55-YEAR-OLD BUSINESSMAN LAST 9 AUGUST AT THE HOTEL WHERE BERROCAL WAS STAYING IN THE DOWNTOWN SECTION OF THE ECUADORAN CAPITAL. THE SAME SOURCES STATED THAT BERROCAL'S WIFE, BLANCA PARADELA, AND A PARTNER ARE IN COLOMBIA NEGOTIATING FOR THE BUSINESSMAN'S RELEASE DIRECTLY WITH REPRESENTATIVES OF THE ELN, A REBEL GROUP LED BY FORMER SPANISH PRIEST MANUEL PEREZ,</p><p>THE ELN HAS NOT ANNOUNCED THE MOTIVE FOR THE KIDNAPPING. SOURCES CONSULTED WITH BY EFE CONSIDERED THE POSSIBILITY THAT THE COLOMBIAN REBEL GROUP HAS ONLY ECONOMIC MOTIVES.</p><p>BERROCAL OWNS A BULLFIGHTING RING IN QUITO AND HE PARTICIPATES WITH HIS BROTHER, BULLFIGHTING BUSINESSMAN LUIS MARTIN BERROCAL, IN LA SEPULVEDANA TRANSPORTATION COMPANY.</p><p>NEITHER THE COLOMBIAN NATIONAL POLICE NOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY (DAS), CHARGED WITH THE COUNTRY'S SECRET INVESTIGATIONS, HAVE ANY INFORMATION ON MARTIN BERROCAL OR HIS ALLEGED PRESENCE IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>EFE HAS LEARNED THAT REPRESENTATIVES OF MARTIN BERROCAL, WHO WENT TO BOGOTA IN MID-SEPTEMBER, DID NOT GET IN CONTACT WITH THE COLOMBIAN AUTHORITIES WHEN THEY PASSED THROUGH THIS CITY.</p><p>THE ELN, A MARXIST-LENINIST ORIENTED GROUP THAT HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN ARMED STRUGGLE FOR 25 YEARS, HAS BEEN CHARACTERIZED BY ITS ATTACKS ON THE COLOMBIAN OIL ENTERPRISE AND FREQUENT KIDNAPPINGS OF NEWSMEN AND POLITICIANS OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE GROUP HAS BEEN ACTIVE ALONG THE COLOMBIAN BORDER, ESPECIALLY AREAS THAT BORDER ECUADOR AND VENEZUELA.</p></body></html>