<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0519"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0519"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0519</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0519 (UMASS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 26 SEP 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] [TEXT] JUST 10 DAYS AFTER A DIALOGUE WAS HELD IN MEXICO, THE SITUATION HAS BECOME MORE TENSE IN VIEW OF THE GOVERNMENTS AND ARMED FORCE'S ATTITUDE. THE GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] HEREBY ANNOUNCES THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>1. THE FMLN HAS SHOWN ITS WILLINGNESS AND FLEXIBILITY BY CARRYING OUT UNILATERAL ACTIONS, AND PRESENTING A REALITISTIC PEACE PROPOSAL THAT COVERS THE ASPIRATIONS OF THE ENTIRE NATION IN ENDING THE CONFLICT IN A SHORT PERIOD OF TIME.</p><p>2. ON THE CONTRARY, THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES HAVE NOT MADE ANY EFFORTS, BUT RATHER THEY HAVE HARDENED THEIR STANDS AND CARRIED OUT REPRESSIVE ACTIONS. IN THE LAST FEW DAYS, WHILE WE OFFERED A UNILATERAL TRUCE, THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES HAVE CONDUCTED PROVOKING WAR ACTIONS; LAUNCHED MILITARY OPERATIONS IN THE AREAS UNDER GUERRILLA CONTROL; BOMBED CIVILIAN POPULATIONS IN MORAZAN, CHALATENANGO, AND GUAZAPA; MAINTAINED A MILITARY SEIGE ON THE UNIVERSITY AND TRADE UNION BUILDINGS; AND EVICTED PEASANTS AND TENANTS FROM THEIR LANDS. THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES HAVE BEEN UNLEASHING A MERCILESS REPRESSION AGAINST THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PEOPLE, TRADE UNIONS, PEASANTS, RELIGIOUS GROUPS, AND STUDENTS. THE NATION HAS BEEN SHOCKED TO HEAR THAT OVER 400 PEOPLE WERE CAPTURED IN THE LAST MONTH.</p><p>DOZENS OF PEOPLE ARE MISSING OR DEAD. THE FASCIST BRUTAL GOVERNMENT IS NOT ASHAMED TO EXHIBIT UNDIGNIFIED PICTURES OF TRADE UNION LEADERS -- WHO SHOW SIGNS OF HAVING BEEN TORTURED -- TESTIFYING BEFORE JUDGES. THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICLY SHOWS THE HORROR OF WOMEN WHO HAVE BEEN RAPED IN THE PRISONS OF THE NATIONAL POLICE, THE OUTRAGES COMMITTED AGAINST THE BAPTIST CHURCH, AND THE BEATINGS AND THREATS AGAINST NEWSMEN. THE GOVERNMENT EXHIBITS TERRIFYING PHOTOGRAPHS IN THE NEWSPAPERS OF WORKERS TIED BY THEIR THUMBS, AND BLINDFOLDED IN THE MOST REPULSIVE STYLES OF THE DEATH SQUADS.</p><p>WE HAVE REACHED SUCH A STATE OF PROVOCATION THAT VICE PRESIDENT FRANCISCO MERINO IS TRYING TO HUMILIATE PUBLICLY THE PEOPLE'S SECTORS BY CALLING THEM TRASH. THE GOVERNMENT HAS NOT EVEN TRIED TO SOLVE THE CASE OF THE WAR HANDICAPPED; THERE ARE 45 OF THEM OCCUPYING THE METROPOLITAN CATHEDRAL. THE ONLY ANSWER TO THEIR DEMANDS FOR MEDICAL ATTENTION ABROAD IS THE RIOT POLICEMEN THAT HAVE BEEN SENT TO THREATEN ATTACKING [WORDS INDISTINCT] TO ACHIEVE THE FREEDOM OF 11 INNOCENT YOUTHS WHO WERE CAPTURED AT A LOCAL CLINIC. TO MAKE MATTERS WORSE, THE U.S. CONGRESS HAS APPROVED SENDING $90 MILLION TO THE FASCIST GOVERNMENT TO CONTINUE FINANCING THE WAR AND REPRESSION.</p><p>3. THIS STATE OF REPRESSION AND THIS MOCKERY TO THE LEGITIMATE ASPIRATIONS OF THE PEOPLE FOR PEACE IS UNACCEPTABLE. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE SAY: NO MORE CAPTURES, TORTURE, MURDERS, BOMBINGS, SIEGES, EVICTIONS, OR HUMILIATION!</p><p>TO OUR FRIENDS AND ENEMIES, WE SAY THAT JUST LIKE WE REMAIN FLEXIBLE AND OPEN FOR NEGOTIATIONS, WE WILL LIKEWISE BE WILLING, ABLE, AND READY TO ACCOMPANY THE PEOPLE IN THEIR STRUGGLE AND STRONGLY CARRY THE FLAG OF DEMOCRACY AND PEACE TO ADVANCE UNTIL WE HAVE NAILED THAT FLAG INTO THE HEARTS OF THOSE WHO ONLY WANT WAR.</p><p>THIS GENERAL COMMAND HEREBY ORDERS ALL OUR GROUPS, FIGHTERS, MILITIA MEMBERS, AND COLLABORATORS TO DEFEND WITH HONOR AND STRENGTH AND WITH THEIR WEAPONS THE FLAG OF DEMOCRACY AND PEACE THAT THE ENTIRE NATION DEMANDS.</p><p>WE HEREBY NOTIFY THAT TODAY, 26 SEPTEMBER 1989, OUR FORCES HAVE BEGUN A NATIONAL MANEUVER THAT WE CALL "STOP THE REPRESSION, EVERYONE FOR THE ACHIEVEMENT OF DEMOCRACY AND PEACE." OUR MANEUVER CALLS FOR ATTACKING SEVERAL GARRISONS AND STRATEGIC POSITIONS OF THE ARMY IN THE FOUR REGIONS OF THE COUNTRY. WE WILL CONTINUE REPORTING ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ACTIONS IN THE FOUR WAR FRONTS IN A FORTHCOMING COMMUNIQUE.</p><p>AGAINST REPRESSION, EVERYONE FOR ACHIEVING DEMOCRACY AND PEACE.</p></body></html>