<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1184"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1184"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1184</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1184 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 22 MAR 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] TENSION PREVAILED THIS EVENING IN THE CAPITAL AFTER THE BODY OF PATRIOTIC UNION [UP] CANDIDATE BERNARDO JARAMILLO OSSA WAS TRANSFERRED TO THE OVAL ROOM IN THE NATIONAL CONGRESS, WHERE HE WILL LIE IN STATE UNTIL HIS FUNERAL ON 24 MARCH.</p><p>BOGOTA MAYOR ANDRES PASTRANA ARANGO DECREED A DRY LAW AT NOON, AND SUSPENDED CLASSES IN PRIVATE AND PUBLIC ELEMENTARY AND HIGH SCHOOLS TOMORROW, 23 MARCH.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT ATTENDED A SECURITY COUNCIL MEETING AT NATINO PALACE AND THE MILITARY COMMANDERS TALKED WITH JOURNALISTS WHEN LEAVING THE PREMISES. DEFENSE MINISTER OSCAR BOTERO SAID THAT THE MEDELLIN CARTEL PLANNED AND CARRIED OUT THE ASSASSINATION UPON INSTRUCTIONS FROM PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA, WHO MADE A DOWN PAYMENT OF 300,000 PESOS TO ANDRES ARTURO GUTIERREZ, THE ASSASSIN HIRED TO PERPETRATE THE CRIME.</p><p>THE ASSASSIN, A 16-YEAR-OLD YOUTH, IS RECOVERING FROM HIS WOUNDS AND, IN A PRELIMINARY DECLARATION TO THE AUTHORITIES, HE CONFIRMED WHO ORDERED THE ASSASSINATION.</p><p>MOREOVER, DAS [ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY] DETECTIVE EDISON SANCHEZ MENDIETA, WHO WAS WOUNDED THIS MORNING AT THE AIRPORT TERMINAL, WAS RELEASED THIS AFTERNOON.</p><p>REFERRING TO THE WAY IN WHICH THE WEAPON WAS SMUGGLED INTO THE AIRPORT, THE AUTHORITIES SAID THAT THIS ISSUE IS BEING THOROUGHLY INVESTIGATED BY SECURITY ORGANIZATIONS -- BECAUSE IT COULD HAVE BEEN ASSEMBLED INSIDE THE PREMISES OR SMUGGLED IN WITH THE COMPLICITY OF A MAINTENANCE WORKER.</p><p>RIOTS, CLASHES, AND THE BURNING OF TIRES AND FIVE BUSES WAS REPORTED IN SEVERAL HIGHER EDUCATION CENTERS OF BOGOTA, SUCH AS THE FREE UNIVERSITY, THE PEDAGOGICAL UNIVERSITY, THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY; AND IN NEIGHBORHOODS SUCH AS POLICARPA SALAVARRIETA, GARCES NAVAS, AND SOACHA. THESE ACTIONS RESULTED IN THE WOUNDING OF A POLICEMAN, WHOSE CONDITION IS STILL CRITICAL.</p><p>TEACHERS WHO ARE MEMBERS OF FECODE [COLOMBIAN FEDERATION OF EDUCATORS] HAVE ORDERED A TWO-DAY STRIKE STARTING TOMORROW. BANANA FARM WORKERS IN URABA, WHERE THE ASSASSINATED LEADER WORKED AS A LABOR LAWYER, REACTED SIMILARLY.</p><p>TRANSPORTATION ACTIVITIES HAVE NOTICEABLY DECREASED IN THE CAPITAL SINCE THE MAYOR URGED THE CITIZENRY TO GO HOME EARLY IN THE EVENING.</p><p>THE ASSASSINATED CANDIDATE'S BODY IS CURRENTLY LYING IN STATE IN THE OVAL ROOM OF THE NATIONAL CONGRESS.</p></body></html>