<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0753"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0753"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0753</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0753 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 15 NOV 89 (ACAN EFE) -- [TEXT] GUATEMALAN SECURITY FORCES LAST NIGHT DEFUSED A BOMB PLANTED IN FRONT OF THE SALVADORAN EMBASSY IN GUATEMALA CITY, THE POLICE REPORTED TODAY.</p><p>THE POLICE ALSO REPORTED THAT TWO BOMBS EXPLODED LAST NIGHT AND DESTROYED TWO TELEPHONE JUNCTION BOXES IN SEPARATE LOCATIONS IN THE CAPITAL. THERE WERE NO CASUALTIES. THE EXPLOSIONS, HOWEVER, CAUSED GREAT ALARM AND PROMPTED SEVERAL POLICE PATROL CARS TO COMB THE AREAS IN SEARCH OF THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ACTIONS, THE SOURCE ADDED.</p><p>A SQUAD DEFUSED A HIGH - POWER BOMB THAT HAD BEEN PLANTED IN FRONT OF THE SALVADORAN EMBASSY.</p><p>NO VICTIMS AT THE SITE OF THE EXPLOSIONS WERE REPORTED. THE DAMAGE ON THE JUNCTION BOXES, HOWEVER, WILL PROBABLY BE COSTLY TO THE STATE TELEPHONE ORGANIZATION.</p><p>THESE ATTACKS ARE IN ADDITION TO THE ONE SUSTAINED BY THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE OPPOSITION RIGHTIST NATIONAL LIBERATION MOVEMENT [MLN] LAST WEEK. THE EXPLOSION DEMOLISHED MOST OF THE OFFICE.</p><p>SO FAR, NO GROUP OR ORGANIZATION HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THESE TERRORIST ATTACKS.</p></body></html>