<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0148"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0148"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0148</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0148 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 19 MAR 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHIEF OF OPERATIONS OF THE SALVADORAN ARMY GENERAL STAFF, BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [EXCERPTS] [BEGIN RECORDING] [PONCE] [WORDS INDISTINCT] HERE IN EL SALVADOR IF THEY WANTED TO ESTABLISH A MECHANISM [WORDS INDISTINCT] TO SLOWLY ESTABLISH PEACE IN THE ENTIRE REGION. THOSE ARE THE EFFORTS [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT CAN THE GOVERNMENT DO ABOUT THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT]?</p><p>[PONCE] WE CAN ASK THEM TO JOIN THE COUNTRY'S DEMOCRATIC, CIVIC LIFE TO [WORDS INDISTINCT] PEOPLE TO LIVE IN PEACE.</p><p>[REPORTER] HOW DO YOU VIEW THE VOTING SITUATION AND THE SECURITY AND SURVEILLANCE THE ARMED FORCES IS PROVIDING, ESPECIALLY NOW THAT THE ARMED FORCES ARE BEING CHARGED WITH THE DEATH OF TWO JOURNALISTS? I THINK YOU ARE AWARE OF THAT. TELL US SOMETHING ABOUT THAT.</p><p>[PONCE] WE ARE THE FIRST ONES TO REGRET THE DEATH OF THE CANAL DOCE NEWSMEN WHO DIED IN SAN MIGUEL AND THE REUTER CORRESPONDENT WHO DIED HERE ON ARMY BOULEVARD. THOSE DEATHS ARE THE RESULT OF THE PREVAILING UNREST AND NERVOUSNESS. THERE ARE BULLETS BEING FIRED ALL OVER THE PLACE AND, UNFORTUNATELY, THOSE REPORTERS WERE THE FIRST TO GET HIT. THIS CONTINUES TO BE A PROBLEM THAT THE ARMED FORCES HAS [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>[REPORTER] DID THE ARMY SUFFER CASUALTIES DURING THE INCIDENTS IN SAN RAMON?</p><p>[PONCE] I CAN TELL YOU THAT A BRACAMONTE BATTALION CORPORAL DIED AND ANOTHER SOLDIER WAS WOUNDED. HOWEVER, THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE AND BRACAMONTE BATTALION SOLDIERS REACTED QUICKLY AND REPELLED THE TERRORIST ACTIVITY THAT IS CURRENTLY CAUSING CHAOS IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>[REPORTER] HAVE OTHER INCIDENTS BEEN REPORTED?</p><p>[PONCE] IT IS DIFFICULT TO BELIEVE WHAT THE FMLN IS SAYING. THEIR SPOKESMAN IN MEXICO CITY SAID THEY WOULD NOT ATTACK THE VOTING TABLES. HOWEVER, WE HAVE HEARD THAT VOTING TABLES HAVE BEEN ATTACKED IN 15 AREAS OF THE COUNTRY. ATTACKS ON VOTING TABLES WERE REPORTED IN CHALATENANGO, SAN ANTONIO, CIUDAD BARRIOS, CAROLINA, AND NORTH [WORD INDISTINCT]. IN USULUTAN, THE FMLN PLANTED TWO BOMBS JUST OUTSIDE THE CITY TO FRIGHTEN THE PEOPLE. HOWEVER, OUR PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC NATURE IS TELLING THE FMLN: WE DO NOT WANT TERRORISM, WE WANT PEACE, AND WE ARE USING PEACEFUL MEANS TO ACHIEVE POWER AND CHOOSE OUR PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT.</p><p>[REPORTER] HOW IS THE VOTING PROCESS PROGRESSING THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY?</p><p>[PONCE] THERE ARE 27 MUNICIPALITIES WHERE ELECTIONS ARE NOT BEING HELD. WE KNOW FOR SURE THAT THERE ARE MUNICIPALITIES, LIKE CINQUERA AND ARAMBALA, WHERE [WORDS INDISTINCT], AND WE ALSO KNOW THAT [WORDS INDISTINCT]. WE KNOW THERE ARE 27 MUNICIPALITIES WHERE THERE WILL BE NO VOTING AND THERE ARE OTHERS THAT [WORDS INDISTINCT] THAT THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES AND MEMBERS OF THE MUNICIPAL VOTING TABLE BOARDS [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>[REPORTER] HOW MANY SOLDIERS ARE PROTECTING THE VOTING TABLE BOARDS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY?</p><p>[PONCE] ABOUT 80 PERCENT OF OUR SOLDIERS ARE PART OF THE DEMOCRACY PLAN. WE ARE GOING TO CONTINUE OFFERING THE SAME PROTECTION AFTER THE VOTING CENTERS ARE CLOSED [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>[REPORTER] WE HAVE READ SOME REPORTS THAT THE ARMED FORCES ARE URGING THE PEOPLE TO VOTE FOR THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY [PDC]. WILL THE SOLDIERS BE ALLOWED TO VOTE?</p><p>[PONCE] FIRST, I EMPHATICALLY AND CATEGORICALLY DENY THAT WE ARE URGING THE PEOPLE TO VOTE FOR THE PDC. WE HAVE SENT A MEMORANDUM TO ALL THE COMMANDERS AND [WORD INDISTINCT] CHIEFS ADVISING THEM THAT WE MUST HAVE A COMPLETELY APOLITICAL ATTITUDE AND REFRAIN FROM PARTICIPATING IN ANY POLITICAL ACTIVITY. WE MUST PROTECT ALL POLITICAL PARTIES, WE MUST PROTECT ALL THE VOTING CENTERS, AND WE MUST ENSURE THE SAFETY OF THE AREAS SURROUNDING THE VOTING CENTERS. WE ARE NOT INTERESTED IN WHO WINS THE ELECTIONS; WE ARE INTERESTED IN MAKING SURE THAT THE WILL OF THE PEOPLE IS RESPECTED AND [WORDS INDISTINCT]. THIS IS A DAY FOR THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE TO PROVE THEIR DEMOCRATIC NATURE.</p><p>[REPORTER] WILL SOLDIERS BE ALLOWED TO CAST THEIR VOTES TODAY?</p><p>[PONCE] AS SOLDIERS WE ALL HAVE THE RIGHT TO VOTE. BUT BEFORE WE CAST OUR VOTE WE ARE GOING TO FULFILL OUR DUTY. OUR DUTY IS TO GUARANTEE SAFETY. THIS WILL NOT CREATE A PROBLEM. FOR EXAMPLE, IF A SOLDIER'S IDENTIFICATION CARD WAS ISSUED IN SAN SALVADOR BUT HE IS STATIONED IN AGUILARES, HE WILL BE ALLOWED TO VOTE AT A SPECIFIC VOTING CENTER. THOSE WHO CAN VOTE WILL DO SO AS CIVILIANS AND THEY WILL BE UNARMED. [WORDS INDISTINCT] MOSTLY ADMINISTRATIVE PERSONNEL AND [WORD INDISTINCT].</p><p>[REPORTER] [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE REBELS HAVE THREATENED TO LAUNCH A LARGE ATTACK. DO YOU HAVE ENOUGH MEN TO FIGHT THEM AT THIS TIME?</p><p>[PONCE] SINCE 1982, WE HAVE [WORDS INDISTINCT] DEMOCRATIC PROCESS IN THE COUNTRY. THE PEOPLE [WORDS INDISTINCT] BEFORE AND AFTER THE ELECTIONS. [WORDS INDISTINCT] AMID SABOTAGE TO THE POWER SYSTEM. WE ARE ALSO EXPERIENCING A WATER PROBLEM [WORDS INDISTINCT]. WE ARE GOING TO EXERCISE OUR RIGHT AS ESTABLISHED IN THE CONSTITUTION AND WE ARE GOING PROTECT THE INTEGRITY OF THE PEOPLE, OUR SOVEREIGNTY, AND [WORDS INDISTINCT]. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>