<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0674"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0674"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0674</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0674 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 11 NOV 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [REPORT] [RENE HURTADO] [TEXT] AN ATTACK AGAINST THE NATIONAL POLICE AT CUSCATANCINGO BEGAN APPROXIMATELY 15-20 MINUTES AGO. THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] URBAN COMMANDO GROUPS ATTACKED THE MILITARY GARRISON IN THE AREA. THERE ARE NO REPORTS OF ANY CASUALTIES YET. THE BOMB EXPLOSIONS AND GUNFIRE THAT ARE BEING HEARD THROUGHOUT THE CITY OF SAN SALVADOR CONTINUE TO THIS MOMENT. WE CAN HEAR THEM IN THE SOUTHERN AREA. FMLN URBAN COMMANDO GROUPS ARE ENGAGED IN HEAVY COMBAT WITH THE NATIONAL POLICE MEMBERS AT CUSCATANCINGO.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN RED CROSS WILL ISSUE AN OFFICIAL COMMUNIQUE SHORTLY. IT HAS BEEN CONFIRMED WHAT OUR FELLOW WORKER, FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ, SAID, THERE ARE NO CASUALTIES. HOWEVER, VEHICLE NO 85 OF THE SALVADORAN RED CROSS WAS SET ON FIRE WHEN SOMEONE HURLED A FIREBOMB AT IT. THE UNIT BURNED DOWN COMPLETELY, NEAR THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF EL SALVADOR IN THE AREA OF ZACAMIL.</p><p>SOMEONE SHOT AT THE TIRES OF RED CROSS UNIT NO 93, AND THE DRIVER LOST CONTROL OF THE VEHICLE AND CRASHED AGAINST A TREE. NO CASUALTIES REPORTED THERE EITHER. A SALVADORAN RED CROSS SOURCE ALSO TOLD US THAT A VEHICLE IS IN THE VICINITY OF THE ASTOR MOVIE, WHERE APPARENTLY FOUR PEOPLE HAVE BULLET WOUNDS AS A RESULT OF THE CLASHES THAT ARE TAKING PLACE IN THE NORTHERN SECTOR OF THE CITY.</p><p>FMLN URBAN COMMAND GROUPS HAVE DEPLOYED UNITS THAT HAVE BEEN LAUNCHING ATTACKS SINCE EARLY THIS EVENING. THE ATTACKS BEGAN WITH THIS MORNING'S ATTACK ON THE NATIONAL GUARD. WE WERE ALSO TOLD THERE MIGHT BE MANY PEOPLE WOUNDED OR DEAD FROM THESE ATTACKS BY THE FMLN URBAN COMMANDO GROUPS ON VARIOUS MILITARY POSITIONS.</p><p>THE SITUATION IN THE AREA OF ZACAMIL NEAR THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY IS VERY CRITICAL. WE ADVISE OUR LISTENERS TO AVOID THE AREA AND TRY TO FIND OTHER ROUTES TO ENTER LIBERTAD NEIGHBORHOOD AND OTHER SECTORS CLOSE TO THE ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD. BETTER YET, PLEASE WAIT, AS THE SITUATION IS VERY COMPLICATED.</p><p>WE HAVE ALSO BEEN TOLD THAT THE CIVIL DEFENSE COMMAND IN EL PLAN DEL PITO HAS NOT BEEN ATTACKED. HOWEVER, THERE WAS A CLASH BETWEEN THE TREASURY POLICE AND FMLN URBAN GUERRILLAS WHO WERE WEARING MASKS. THE FMLN GUERRILLAS SIMULTANEOUSLY AMBUSHED SOME MEMBERS OF THE TREASURY POLICE IN THE UNICENTRO AREA.</p></body></html>