<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0786"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0786"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0786</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0786 (PRC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 17 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [STATEMENT] [SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI] [TEXT] SALVADORAN PEOPLE: WE HAVE POWERFUL REASONS FOR ENSURING THAT JUSTICE WILL BE SERVED IN THIS REGRETTABLE INCIDENT IN WHICH FATHER ELLACURIA, OTHER PRIESTS, AND CIVILIANS WERE KILLED. WE WANT TO TELL THOSE WHO ARE TRYING TO DRAW PREMATURE CONCLUSIONS TO ABSTAIN FROM DOING SO; WE URGE YOU TO HEED THE COMMUNITY OF JESUS AND THE ARCHBISHOPRIC OF SAN SALVADOR'S CALLS THAT THIS CASE NOT BE POLITICIZED OR USED TO GENERATE FURTHER VIOLENCE IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>WE BELIEVE THAT AN INVESTIGATION MUST BE CONDUCTED; WE ARE COMMITTED TO CONDUCTING AN IN-DEPTH INVESTIGATION TO PUNISH THE PERPETRATORS OF THIS SAVAGE ACTION REGARDLESS OF WHO IS INVOLVED. THE ARMED FORCES HIGH COMMAND AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC WILL REQUEST HELP TO ENSURE THAT THE SALVADORAN CRIME INVESTIGATION COMMISSION WILL BE ADVISED BY EXPERTS IN ORDER TO GET TO THE ROOT OF THIS REGRETTABLE INCIDENT AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. WE WILL ASK THE UNITED STATES, GREAT BRITAIN, AND SPAIN TO HELP US. I MENTION SPAIN BECAUSE SOME OF THOSE WHO WERE ASSASSINATED ARE CITIZENS OF THAT COUNTRY.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE: WE BELIEVE THAT THE TIME HAS COME TO CONDUCT AN INVESTIGATION AND ENSURE THAT JUSTICE IS SERVED IN REPREHENSIBLE ACTIONS LIKE THIS ONE INSTEAD OF POLITICIZING THEM AND GENERATING FURTHER VIOLENCE.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC AND THE ARMED FORCES WILL NEVER ALLOW A RETURN TO THE PAST; A RETURN TO THOSE DRAMATIC AND REGRETTABLE TIMES IN THE COUNTRY WHEN GROUPS WANTED TO FUTHER THEIR CAUSE THROUGH VIOLENT ACTS SUCH AS THIS ONE. WE WILL NOT ALLOW THIS TO HAPPEN AND WILL PURSUE SUCH GROUPS TO ENSURE THAT THEY FEEL THE FULL FORCE OF THE LAW.</p></body></html>