<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0624"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0624"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0624</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0624 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>LIMA, 30 OCT 89 (EFE) -- [EXCERPTS] PERUVIAN INTERIOR MINISTRY SOURCES HAVE REPORTED THAT A MEMBER OF THE PERUVIAN NATIONAL POLICE, WHO IS ALSO AND INTERPOL COMMANDER, WAS KILLED TODAY IN LIMA BY PRESUMED SHINING PATH TERRORISTS DURING A OFFENSIVE UNLEASHED 12 DAYS BEFORE THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>IN LIMA, ANOTHER COMMANDO THAT APPARENTLY ALSO BELONGING TO THE MAOIST "SHINING PATH" ARMED ORGANIZATION, SHOT DEAD PERUVIAN NATIONAL POLICE SERGEANT LUIS CACERES TAVARA, 24.</p><p>TWO HIGH-VOLTAGE POWER PYLONS WERE SABOTAGED ON THE NIGHT OF 29 OCTOBER, CAUSING A PARTIAL BLACKOUT IN THE PERUVIAN CAPITAL.</p><p>DURING THE BLACKOUT, TERRORISTS THREW INCENDIARY BOMBS AT A POLICE PRECINCT, INJURING THREE POLICEMEN.</p><p>THE POLICE BELIEVE THAT THESE ATTACKS WAS PERPETRATED BY THE SHINING PATH.</p><p>PERUVIAN INTERIOR MINISTRY SOURCES HAVE POINTED OUT THAT 160,000 NATIONAL POLICEMEN ARE CONFINED TO BARRACKS AS OF TODAY. THEIR CONFINEMENT WILL END AFTER THE HOLDING OF THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS ON 12 NOVEMBER.</p><p>ACCORDING TO PROVISIONAL DATA, DURING OCTOBER MORE THAN 350 PEOPLE WERE KILLED IN PERU AS A RESULT OF THE TERRORIST OFFENSIVE AGAINST THE ELECTIONS.</p><p>THE SHINING PATH HAS CALLED HAS CALLED A BOYCOTT AGAINST THE ELECTIONS AND AN "ARMED STOPPAGE," THAT IS, A STRIKE UNDER THE THREAT OF ATTACKS, FOR 3 NOVEMBER.</p><p>IN RESPONSE, THE MAIN POLITICAL PARTIES HAVE ASKED THE PEOPLE TO PARTICIPATE IN A "MARCH FOR PEACE AND THE DEFENSE OF DEMOCRACY." THIS MARCH IS ALSO SCHEDULED FOR 3 NOVEMBER IN LIMA.</p></body></html>