<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0397"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0397"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0397</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0397 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 29 AUG 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] FIVE HUNDRED COLOMBIAN JUDGES HAVE ANNOUNCED THEIR "JOINT RESIGNATION" IN PROTEST OF THE ABOLITION OF THE JURY, WHICH MAKES THE JUDGES FULLY RESPONSIBLE FOR A SENTENCE. THE JUDGES HAVE ALSO COMPLAINED THAT THEY DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH OFFICIAL PROTECTION.</p><p>THE JUDICIAL BRANCH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION [ASOCIACION NACIONAL DEL PODER JUDICIAL] (ASONAL) REPORTED TODAY THAT THE GOVERNMENT DECISION -- WHICH BECAME EFFECTIVE ON 28 AUGUST -- "REPRESENTS A GRAVE DANGER FOR THE JUDGES, BECAUSE THEY ARE FULLY RESPONSIBLE FOR DECLARING A PERSON GUILTY AND CONDEMNING THE CULPRITS."</p><p>A GROUP OF LITIGANT LAWYERS ALSO ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT THEY WILL NOT PARTICIPATE IN PUBLIC HEARINGS UNTIL THE REINSTATEMENT OF THE JURY, WHOSE ABOLITION THEY CONSIDER UNCONSTITUTIONAL.</p><p>ASONAL SECRETARY GENERAL ORLANDO MORALES TOLD EFE THAT THE JOINT RESIGNATION INVOLVES 550 JUDGES IN BOGOTA AND CUNDINAMARCA, THE DEPARTMENT IN WHICH THE COUNTRY'S CAPITAL IS LOCATED.</p><p>THE RESIGNATION COULD BE ANNOUNCED DURING THE WEEKEND AS A "CONTINUATION" OF THE 16 AUGUST STRIKE, WHEN 4,600 JUDGES DEMANDED MORE PROTECTION TO DO THEIR WORK, MORALES ADDED.</p><p>MORE THAN 200 OFFICIALS HAVE BEEN MURDERED SINCE THE COLOMBIAN JUSTICE SYSTEM BEGAN ITS STRUGGLE AGAINST THE DRUG LORDS IN 1981.</p><p>THREE JUDGES HAVE BEEN MURDERED SO FAR THIS YEAR. THEY WERE IN CHARGE OF LAWSUITS AGAINST THE MOST SOUGHT AFTER DRUG TRAFFICKING LEADERS IN THE COUNTRY. THE LAWSUITS WERE LATER SUSPENDED.</p><p>COLOMBIAN JUSTICE MINISTER MONICA DE GREIFF TRAVELED TO THE UNITED STATES ON 25 AUGUST TO REQUEST $2.5 MILLION IN AID TO GUARANTEE THE PROTECTION OF COLOMBIAN JUDGES AND THEIR RELATIVES.</p><p>THE MINISTER AND HER 3-YEAR-OLD SON HAVE BEEN THREATENED BY THE DRUG TRAFFICKING MAFIAS.</p></body></html>