<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1153"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1153"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1153</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1153 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 6 MAR 90 (AFP) -- [TEXT] MILITARY SOURCES REPORTED TODAY THAT FIGHTING BROKE OUT ON THE NIGHT OF 5 MARCH IN THE WAR-TORN CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT TO THE NORTH OF SAN SALVADOR, WHERE THE GUERRILLAS SUFFERED EIGHT CASUALTIES.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE REPORTED THAT THE CLASHES TOOK PLACE NEAR SAN ISIDRO LABRADOR, WHERE THREE GUERRILLAS WERE KILLED AND FIVE OTHERS WERE WOUNDED.</p><p>THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN), WHICH HAS BEEN FIGHTING THE U.S.-BACKED ARMY FOR THE LAST 10 YEARS, HAS TRADITIONALLY MAINTAINED A HIGH PROFILE IN STRATEGIC AREAS OF CHALATENANGO.</p><p>MEANWHILE, URBAN GUERRILLA COMMANDOS HARASSED TROOPS BELONGING TO THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE LAST NIGHT AT THE MARIONA PENITENTIARY, LOCATED ON THE NORTHERN OUTSKIRTS OF SAN SALVADOR, APPARENTLY LEAVING NO CASUALTIES.</p><p>ATLACATL BATTALION TROOPS, WHICH MAINTAIN A COUNTERINSURGENCY OPERATION AT THE FOOTHILLS OF GUAZAPA HILL, TO THE NORTH OF SAN SALVADOR, CONFISCATED WAR MATERIEL THAT THE GUERRILLAS HAD HIDDEN UNDERGROUND.</p><p>IN ANOTHER TURN OF EVENTS, FMLN SAPPERS WHO CONTINUOUSLY SABOTAGE THE ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM DESTROYED SEVERAL HIGH-VOLTAGE POSTS IN LA LIBERTAD AND CABANAS DEPARTMENTS IN THE CENTRAL PART OF THE COUNTRY, AND IN USULUTAN DEPARTMENT IN THE SOUTHEASTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THERE WERE WIDESPREAD POWER OUTAGES IN THE THREE DEPARTMENTS WHILE TECHNICIANS OF THE STATE-RUN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANIES REPAIRED THE DAMAGE.</p><p>THE ARMY AND SECURITY CORPS DEPLOYED HEAVY PATROLS IN SAN SALVADOR AND IN CITIES IN THE COUNTRY'S INTERIOR TO TRY AND COUNTER THE WAVE OF ATTACKS.</p></body></html>