<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1013"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1013"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1013</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1013 (TRW)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 19 DEC 89 (TCS TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] A FEW MONTHS AGO, IT WAS SPECULATED THAT CHANGES OF COMMAND IN CERTAIN ARMED FORCES KEY POSTS WOULD TAKE PLACE LATE IN 1989.</p><p>COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, JOINT CHIEF OF STAFF, DISREGARDED THIS POSSIBILITY AND SAID THAT THE SITUATION OF VIOLENCE IN THE COUNTRY, PARTICULARLY SINCE THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] OFFENSIVE, REQUIRES, MORE THAN EVER, THAT THE ARMED FORCES ARE MILITARILY STABLE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PONCE] I THINK THE SITUATION IN THE COUNTRY DEMANDS MILITARY STABILITY. CHANGES COULD PROVOKE SOME UNREST. WE THINK NO SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN THE MILITARY COMMAND SHOULD BE MADE AT PRESENT BECAUSE OF THE CURRENT SITUATION. SHOULD ANY CHANGES BE MADE, IT WOULD BE FOR MAJOR REASONS IN THE SERVICE. NO HIGH-LEVEL CHANGES HAVE BEEN ANTICIPATED, HOWEVER. [END RECORDING]</p><p>REFERRING TO THE REBELS' ACTIVITIES, COL PONCE SAID THE ARMED ACTIONS INITIATED, PARTICULARLY IN SAN SALVADOR ON 11 NOVEMBER, HAVE ENDED WITH UNFAVORABLE RESULTS FOR THE GUERRILLAS. HE ADVISED, HOWEVER, THAT THE GUERRILLAS WILL CONTINUE TO SABOTAGE THE COUNTRY'S ECONOMY AND PERPETRATE TERRORIST ACTIONS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PONCE] I CAN TELL YOU THAT THE FMLN HAS FAILED, MILITARILY SPEAKING. THE FMLN'S FAMOUS ALL - THE - WAY OFFENSIVE HAS ENDED IN TREMENDOUS FAILURE, DETERMINED BY THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. WE CAN ANTICIPATE THAT THE FMLN WILL CONTINUE ITS SABOTAGING ACTIONS AND TERRORISM WHICH COULD DESTROY STORES IN SAN SALVADOR, AS WELL AS POSTS AND PYLONS ON HIGHWAYS. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE CAN REST ASSURED, HOWEVER, THAT AN OFFENSIVE ACTION BY THE FMLN AT PRESENT CAN BE DISREGARDED. [END RECORDING]</p><p>REGARDING THE CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR FESTIVITIES, WHICH HAVE BEEN MARRED BY THE WAVE OF VIOLENCE, MANY PEOPLE HAVE WONDERED WHETHER THE 2300 - TO - 0500 CURFEW IS STILL IN FORCE. PONCE SAID THE POSSIBILITY OF LIFTING THE CURFEW AT LEAST ON 24 AND 31 DECEMBER IS BEING CONSIDERED SO THAT THE SALVADORAN FAMILIES CAN ENJOY THESE FESTIVITIES. HE ADDED THAT SUCH A MEASURE, HOWEVER, WILL DEPEND ON THE FMLN'S STANCE. FINALLY, PONCE REPORTED THAT THE FMLN MACHINEGUNNED A BUILDING WITH COFFEE HARVESTERS IN SANTA ANA AND MAIMED TWO PEOPLE SIMPLY BECAUSE THEY REFUSED TO STOP HARVESTING COFFEE.</p></body></html>