<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0136"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0136"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0136</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0136 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 19 MAR 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [REPORT] [RENE HURTADO] [TEXT] ONLY HOURS BEFORE TOMORROW'S ELECTIONS BEGIN AT 0700, BEFORE THE PEOPLE BEGIN CASTING THEIR VOTES TO ELECT A NEW PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT, THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] CONTINUES WITH ITS TRANSPORTATION STOPPAGE AND ITS ATTACKS ON MILITARY GARRISONS.</p><p>TODAY AT APPROXIMATELY 2130 [0330 GMT], A GROUP OF REBELS LAUNCHED A SURPRISE ATTACK ON THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE SALVADORAN AIR FORCE. SOME SHOTS WERE FIRED, SOME BAZOOKAS WERE ALSO FIRED, BUT IT IS NOT KNOWN IF THEY ACTUALLY HIT A TARGET INSIDE THE BASE. HOWEVER, AIR FORCE SPOKESMEN HAVE SAID THAT THE ATTACK WAS LAUNCHED FROM SANTA LUCIA COLONIA. NO DAMAGE OR CASUALTIES RESULTED FROM THIS ATTACK ON THE AIR FORCE HEADQUARTERS BY FMLN REBELS. THE SOLDIERS GUARDING THE AREA REPELLED THE REBEL ATTACK.</p><p>A SEARCH OPERATION IS UNDER WAY IN THE AREA TO FIND THE REBELS WHO ATTACKED THE AIR FORCE BASE THIS EVENING. NO CASUALTIES OR DAMAGE RESULTED FROM THIS ATTACK.</p></body></html>