<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0437"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0437"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0437</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0437 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 6 SEP 89 (AFP) -- [EXCERPT] THE MEDELLIN CARTEL REACTED WITH A CAMPAIGN OF ATTACKS TO U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH'S ANTIDRUG PROGRAM. AS OF THIS MORNING THE SPEECH HAD NOT ELICITED ANY OFFICIAL COMMENT ON THE PART OF THE COLOMBIAN PRESIDENCY.</p><p>ONLY COMMUNICATIONS MINISTER CARLOS ELMOS STATED IN VERY GENERAL TERMS THAT THE PROBLEM CONTINUES TO BE "FUNDAMENTALLY THAT OF THE CONSUMPTION IN THE UNITED STATES," WHICH HE ADDED MUST "PUNISH THE CONSUMERS."</p><p>SHORTLY AFTER PRESIDENT BUSH'S SPEECH, A WAVE OF ATTACKS SHOOK MEDELLIN, THE GENERAL HEADQUARTERS OF THE COUNTRY'S PRINCIPAL DRUG TRAFFICKERS. ACCORDING TO A POLICE REPORT ISSUED TODAY 11 PERSONS, INCLUDING 2 NEWSMEN, WERE WOUNDED IN THE ATTACKS.</p><p>THE BOGOTA NEWSPAPERS DEDICATED THEIR MAIN HEADLINES THIS MORNING TO THE U.S. PRESIDENT'S SPEECH. IN GENERAL THEY COMPARED HIS SPEECH TO A DECLARATION OF WAR: "BUSH WAGES WAR (EL ESPECTADOR), "BUSH DECLARES WAR" (EL SIGLO), "8 BILLION AGAINST DRUGS" (EL TIEMPO).</p><p>THE NEWSPAPERS DID NOT DEDICATE ANY EDITORIAL TO BUSH'S SPEECH, BUT LIMITED THEMSELVES TO PUBLISHING EXCERPTS OF HIS SPEECH, TAKING SPECIAL NOTE OF THE 5-YEAR $2 BILLION AID PLAN FOR COLOMBIA, PERU, AND BOLIVIA.</p><p>THE COLOMBIAN TELEVISION STATIONS, WHICH HAD ANNOUNCED THAT THEY WOULD CARRY A LIVE BROADCAST OF THE OVERALL ANTIDRUG PLAN, FINALLY ENDED UP ONLY TRANSMITTING EXCERPTS OF THE SPEECH ON A DELAYED BASIS, WITHOUT EXPLAINING THE REASON FOR THE CHANGE OF PLANS.</p><p>ONLY CARACOL RADIO REBROADCAST THE TEXT OF PRESIDENT BUSH'S SPEECH ON A DELAYED BASIS WITH A SIMULTANEOUS SPANISH TRANSLATION.</p><p>DESPITE THE CURFEW IMPLEMENTED 1 WEEK AGO IN MEDELLIN AND THE MAJOR MILITARY PRESENCE IN THE COUNTRY'S SECOND LARGEST CITY, TWO BANK BRANCHES AND A RESTAURANT WERE BLOWN UP WHILE A RESTAURANT WAS BURNED.</p></body></html>