<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0714"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0714"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0714</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0714 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 13 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [STATEMENT] [COLONEL MAURICIO VARGAS, COMMANDER OF THE 3RD INFANTRY BRIGADE] [TEXT] [VARGAS, IN PROGRESS] ...CARRY OUT THE PERTINENT AND NECESSARY ACTIONS AND THUS CONTRIBUTE TO THE STABILIZATION OF THE SITUATION SO THAT WE MAY AGAIN ENJOY THE SAFETY AND CALM CURRENTLY BEING AFFECTED BY TERRORIST RAIDS IN SOME AREAS AROUND SAN MIGUEL. WE AS AN INSTITUTION WILL GUARANTEE THAT IN THE NEXT 8 OR 10 HOURS THE PEACE YOU NEED WILL BE REGAINED. THIS IS A PROMISE WE ARE MAKING, AND WE WILL KEEP IT SO THAT YOU WILL REALLY HAVE THAT TRANQUILITY YOU NEED. HOWEVER, I MUST ASK THE PEOPLE WHO ARE OUT ON THE STREET TO PLEASE REFRAIN FROM DOING THIS. IF YOU ARE OUT ON THE STREET, PLEASE DO NOT RUN IF YOU SEE SOLDIERS. WALK IN THE MIDDLE OF THE STREET. YOU WILL NOT HAVE TROUBLE. WE DO NOT USE VIOLENCE. WE USE MILITARY CONTROL TECHNIQUES. WE DO NOT USE IRRATIONAL TERROR. WE USE STRICTLY MILITARY TECHNIQUES AND TACTICS.</p><p>WE ASK THAT YOU REFRAIN FROM GOING OUT IN THE NEXT 8 HOURS, OR AT LEAST STAY OFF THE STREETS. IF YOU MUST GO OUT, DO IT, BUT WALK IN THE MIDDLE OF THE STREET. DO NOT RUN, AND DO NOT FEAR THE AUTHORITIES. THE AUTHORITIES ARE THERE TO PROTECT YOUR SAFETY WHICH IS BEING AFFECTED. THE AUTHORITIES WISH TO GIVE YOU BACK YOUR TRANQUILITY. I WANT YOU TO REST ASSURED THAT WE WILL NOT FAIL YOU. BEFORE A MARXIST-LENINIST PLAN TAKES OVER ONE OF OUR CITIES OR TOWNS, THEY WILL HAVE TO WALK OVER THE BODIES OF EACH AND EVERY SOLDIER. THE SOLDIERS ARE WILLING TO DEFEND EACH AND EVERY ONE OF YOU.</p><p>THAT IS WHAT I WANTED TO TELL YOU. I JUST WANTED TO SEND YOU THIS MESSAGE OF FAITH, HOPE, AND TRUST IN YOUR GOVERNMENT AND YOUR INSTITUTION. THAT IS ESSENTIAL. WE MUST NOT YIELD WHEN CONFRONTED BY MARXIST OR COMMUNIST PLANS. OUR GOVERNMENT AND OUR ARMED FORCES NEED YOUR SUPPORT TODAY MORE THAN EVER. SUPPORT OUR STRUGGLE IN DEFENSE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM. REST ASSURED THAT ALONG THIS PATH THERE IS NO RETURN. WE EITHER ACHIEVE OUR FINAL GOAL OF CONSOLIDATION, OR WE FALL ALONG THE PATH. WE MUST GIVE OUR FUTURE GENERATIONS A FREE AND DEMOCRATIC HOMELAND. IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS, I WILL BE MORE THAN GLAD TO ANSWER THEM; HOWEVER, THIS WAS THE MESSAGE I WANTED TO LEAVE WITH YOU.</p></body></html>