<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0163"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0163"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-31"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SOFIA (BULGARIA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0163</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0163 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SOFIA (BULGARIA), 31 MAR 89 (BTA) -- [TEXT] MR MANUEL CEPEDA [SPELLING OF NAME AS RECEIVED], MEMBER OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE CC OF THE COLOMBIAN COMMUNIST PARTY (PCC) AND EDITOR IN CHIEF OF THE VOZ NEWSPAPER, VISITED THIS COUNTRY FROM MARCH 28 TO MARCH 31.</p><p>HE HAD A MEETING WITH MR DIMITUR STANISHEV, SECRETARY OF THE CC [CENTRAL COMMITTEE] OF THE BCP [BULGARIAN COMMUNIST PARTY], WHO ACQUAINTED THE GUEST WITH THE LATEST MOMENTS OF THE ACTIVITY OF THE BCP IN IMPLEMENTATION OF THE TASKS RELATED TO THE INNOVATIVE PROCESSES IN THE DIFFERENT SPHERES OF THE SOCIOPOLITICAL LIFE IN BULGARIA. OPINIONS WERE EXCHANGED ON THE CONDITION OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNIST MOVEMENT, ON THE NEED OF CREATIVE RECONSIDERATION OF THE INTERNAL AND INTERNATIONAL REALITIES IN THE SPIRIT OF THE AIMS AND CONTENT OF THE NEW POLITICAL THINKING.</p><p>MR CEPEDA SPOKE OF THE EXCEPTIONALLY HARD AND COMPREHENSIVE CONDITIONS FOR THE ACTIVITY OF THE COLOMBIAN COMMUNISTS AND THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE DIFFERENT DEMOCRATIC ORGANIZATIONS IN COLOMBIA. HE SAID THAT ALMOST 1,000 ACTIVISTS AND MEMBERS OF THE COLOMBIAN COMMUNIST PARTY AND THE PATRIOTIC UNION HAVE DIED DURING THE RECENT YEARS KILLED BY ASSASSINS HIRED BY THE REACTION. IN THIS CONNECTION THE GUEST POINTED OUT THE NEED OF ACTIVATION AND BROADENING OF INTERNATIONAL SOLIDARITY IN DEFENCE OF THE PROGRESSIVE, PATRIOTIC AND DEMOCRATIC FORCES IN COLOMBIA, SOLIDARITY WITH THE STRUGGLE OF THE PEOPLE'S MASSES IN THE STRUGGLE FOR PRESERVATION OF DEMOCRACY, FOR PEACE AND SOCIAL PROGRESS.</p><p>MR MANUEL CEPEDA HAD A MEETING WITH MR RADOSLAV RADEV, EDITOR IN CHIEF OF THE RABOTNICHESKO DELO DAILY. THEY DISCUSSED THE OPPORTUNITIES FOR BROADENING OF THE COOPERATION BETWEEN THE PAPERS OF THE BCP AND THE PCC.</p></body></html>