<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0854"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0854"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0854</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0854 (GTE)</p><p>BOGOTA, 23 NOV 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] GENERAL MIGUEL ANTONIO GOMEZ PADILLA, NATIONAL POLICE DIRECTOR, REPORTED TODAY THAT PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA, NUMBER ONE IN THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, AND ONE OF THE OCHOA BROTHERS, ALSO A KINGPIN IN THE GROUP, ARE APPARENTLEY SURROUNDED AND SHOULD BE CAPTURED ANY TIME.</p><p>GENERAL PADILLA TOLD REPORTERS AT 1500 GMT TODAY THAT THE SEARCH FOR SOME OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL LEADERS HAD BEEN INTENSIFIED IN THE PAST 2 DAYS SOMEWHERE IN THE MIDDLE MAGDALENA IN COLOMBIA'S NORTHERN CENTER. HE REFUSED TO IDENTIFY THE PLACE SO AS NOT TO HAMPER THE OPERATIONS.</p><p>HE ALSO SAID THAT THE SEARCH IS BEING CONDUCTED BY THE POLICE'S ELITE GROUP, SUPPORTED BY ARMY AND AIR FORCE TROOPS.</p><p>GEN PADILLA SAID: "FOR THE PAST 2 DAYS, SPECIAL ELITE POLICE MEMBERS, SUPPORTED BY THE AIR FORCE AND MILITARY UNITS, HAVE CONFRONTED DRUG TRAFFICKERS IN THE SEARCH FOR DRUG TRAFFICKING CAPOS WHO WILL BE CAPTURED LATER."</p><p>"AT THIS TIME, WE ARE OPERATING IN A SPECIFIC AREA AGAINST THE MEDELLIN CARTEL." HE ALSO SAID THAT "PABLO ESCOBAR AND ONE OF THE OCHOA BROTHERS" ARE POSSIBLY ENCIRCLED AND THAT THE CLASHES "APPARENTLY HAVE RESULTED IN TWO MEN BEING KILLED AND NUMEROUS OTHERS BEING DETAINED."</p><p>THE HIGH-RANKING OFFICER ASKED NEWSMEN FOR TIME "TO COMPLETE THE ACTION AND, POSSIBLY, TO REPORT THAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED VICTORY."</p><p>POLICE SOURCES SAID THAT THE OPERATIONS ARE TAKING PLACE IN THE CONCORNA MUNICIPALITY AREA, IN ANTIOQUIA'S MIDDLE MAGDALENA REGION, BETWEEN MEDELLIN AND BOGOTA, SOME 180 KM NORTHWEST OF THE COLOMBIAN CAPITAL, WHERE GUERRILLAS OF THE CAMILIST UNION - NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (UC-ELN) ARE ALSO ACTIVE.</p><p>THE MEDELLIN CARTEL IS REGARDED AS THE WORLD'S MOST IMPORTANT DRUG TRAFFICKING ORGANIZATION AND, ACCORDING TO THE U.S. POLICE, IS RESPONSIBLE FOR 70 PERCENT OF THE COCAINE SMUGGLED INTO THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>PABLO ESCOBAR AND JORGE LUIS OCHOA VASQUEZ, THE CARTEL'S NUMBER ONE AND NUMBER TWO MEN, RESPECTIVELY, ARE RANKED AMONG THE WORLD'S 20 RICHEST MEN BY SPECIALIZED U.S. MAGAZINES LIKE "FORBES" AND "FORTUNE," WHICH ESTIMATE THEIR PERSONAL WEALTH AT OVER $3 BILLION.</p><p>JORGE LUIS OCHOA HAS TWO BROTHERS WHO ARE ALSO REGARDED AS IMPORTANT DRUG KINGPINS.</p></body></html>