<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0643"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0643"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0643</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0643 (GE)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 5 OCT 89 (RADIO PEACE AND PROGRESS) -- [COMMENTARY] [MARINA PETROVSKAYA] [TEXT] THE US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES HAS APPROVED BY A MAJORITY VOTE AN ANTI-NICARAGUAN RESOLUTION WHICH GRANTS $4 MILLION WORTH OF SO-CALLED HUMANITARIAN AID FOR THE CONTRAS. ANALYST MARINA PETROVSKAYA DISCUSSES THE SUBJECT.</p><p>THIS RESOLUTION IN ESSENCE ALLOWS THE CONTINUATION OF THE DIRTY WAR AGAINST NICARAGUA. THE SOMOSA FORCES HAVE LATELY INCREASED THEIR TERRORIST ACTIONS IN SEVERAL PARTS OF NICARAGUA BY KILLING CIVILIANS AND SANDINIST SOLDIERS. AS WITNESSED BY THE [WORD INDISTINCT], THIS HAS NOT HAPPENED BY CHANCE. MANY CONTRAS TURNED THEMSELVES INTO THE NICARAGUAN AUTHORITIES WHEN AND AMNESTY WAS DECLARED. THEY ADMITTED THAT THEY RECEIVED ORDERS FROM THEIR LEADERS IN HONDURAS TO CROSS THE BORDER AND, BY MEANS OF TERROR AND THREAT, FORCED CIVILIANS TO VOTE FOR THE OPPOSITION CANDIDATES.</p><p>SUPRISINGLY, THE SOMOSA FORCES HAVE NOT AIMED AT MORE AMBITIOUS GOALS. INSTEAD OF BEING CONDEMNED BY WASHINGTON THEY ARE RECEIVING COMPLEMENTARY AID FROM IT. CURIOUSLY, THIS NEW [WORD INDISTINCT] FOR THE CONTRAS COINCIDES WITH THE GRANTING OF $9 MILLION TO FINANCE THE ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN OF THE NICARAGUAN OPPOSITION, JUST WHEN MRS VIOLETA DE CHAMORRO HAS RECEIVED $3 MILLION FOR HERSELF.</p><p>SUCH US GOVERNMENT AID FOR THE NICARAGUAN RIGHTIST SECTORS ALARMS THE NICARAGUAN AND THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITIES. ELECTIONS WILL BE HELD IN NICARAGUA IN A FEW MONTHS FOLLOWING THE NATIONAL DEMOCRATIZATION PROCESS WHICH IS BEING CONDUCTED IN KEEPING WITH THE COMMITMENTS ASSUMED BY THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT, ACCORDING TO INTELLIGENCE REPORTS FROM GUATEMALA AND HONDURAS.</p><p>THIS DEMOCRATIZATION PROCESS CANNOT BE NORMAL SINCE CONFRONTATIONS BETWEEN CONTRAS AND [WORD INDISTINCT] ARE INCREASING, AND THESE ARE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE UNITED STATES. AS IS KNOWN, THE SANDINIST AUTHORITIES HAVE BEEN FORCED TO SUSPEND THE CESSATION OF MILITARY OPERATION AGAINST THE SOMOSA FORCES, WHICH HAD BEEN IN EFFECT SINCE MAY 1988.</p><p>MEANWHILE, WASHINGTON HAS ACCUSED THE SANDINISTS OF VIOLATING DEMOCRACY AND OF HINDERING A [WORD INDISTINCT] POLITICAL SOLUTION.</p><p>[WORDS INDISTINCT] SUCH AN EVALUATION OF THE SANDINIST ACTION IS UNJUST IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE PEACE AND SECURITY IN THE REGION, INCLUDING NICARAGUA, IT IS NECESSARY THAT ALL THE PARTIES INVOLVED IN THE CONFLICT MAKE AN EFFORT, NOT JUST ONE.</p><p>LOOK AT THE SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR THESE DAYS. IT LOOKED LIKE THE CONDITIONS FOR A CEASE-FIRE HAD IMPROVED AND THIS IS WHY WE APPLAUDED THE NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT [WORDS INDISTINCT]. BUT THE PROGRESS MADE WAS REJECTED BY THE RIGHTIST GROUPS WHICH REFUSED TO HOLD CONSTRUCTIVE NEGOTIATIONS. THIS IS WHY THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] REFUSES TO HOLD THE THIRD ROUND OF NEGOTIATIONS UNTIL THE GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS CHANGE THEIR OLD METHODS OF SOLVING INTERNAL PROBLEMS WITHOUT GUARANTEEING THE SECURITY OF THE LEFTIST FORCES.</p><p>IT SEEMS TO ME THAT THE EVENTS TAKING PLACE IN NICARAGUA AND EL SALVADOR ARE SIMILAR BECAUSE THE PEACE EFFORTS IN THE TWO COUNTRIES ARE BEING OBSTRUCTED BY MILITARY FORCES FINANCED BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT, WHICH CONTINUES TO KEEP A HEATED ENVIRONMENT IN THOSE COUNTRIES AND TO LOOK FOR SOLUTIONS FROM A POSITION OF FORCE.</p></body></html>