<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0433"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0433"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0433</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0433 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 6 SEP 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] THE POLICE REPORTED TODAY THAT U.S. JOURNALIST BERNARDETTE PARDO, WHO WAS SENT TO COLOMBIA BY THE SPANISH-SPEAKING UNIVISION TELEVISION NETWORK TO COVER THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT'S "WAR" AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKERS, WAS INJURED LAST NIGHT DURING AN ATTACK IN MEDELLILN.</p><p>IT WAS LEARNED THAT PARDO WAS IN A RESTAURANT IN MEDELLIN ACCOMPANIED BY CAMERAMAN CARLOS CORRALES AND COLOMBIAN MOVIE ACTOR JORGE SAENZ WHEN A MEDIUM-INTENSITY BOMB EXPLODED IN THE ESTABLISHMENT.</p><p>PARDO, OF CUBAN ORIGIN, SUFFERED FRACTURES IN HER CLAVICLE AND RIGHT SHOULDER BLADE AND WOUNDS IN HER NECK. SHE IS CURRENTLY AT A HOSPITAL IN MEDELLIN. CORRALES WAS INJURED BY SPLINTERS IN VARIOUS PARTS OF HIS BODY.</p><p>THE POLICE REPORTED THAT THE ATTACK WAS APPARENTLY CARRIED OUT BY A COUPLE THAT WAS SITTING AT A TABLE CLOSE TO THE JOURNALISTS. ACCORDING TO REPORTS, A WOMAN WENT TO THE RESTROOM, THEN LEFT IN A HURRY FOLLOWED BY THE MAN, WHO WAS ACCOMPANYING HER, SHORTLY BEFORE THE EXPLOSION.</p><p>ON THE NIGHT OF 3 SEPTEMBER UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUALS PLACED TWO BOMBS IN A PARKING LOT AND GARDEN OF A MEDELLIN HOTEL WHERE SEVERAL FOREIGN JOURNALISTS WERE STAYING. THE JOURNALISTS ARRIVED IN COLOMBIA A FEW DAYS AGO TO COVER THE INTENSIFICATION OF THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUGGLE AGAINST NARCOTICS-TRAFFICKING ORGANIZATIONS.</p><p>ALTHOUGH NO ONE WAS INJURED IN THAT INCIDENT, IT WAS CLEAR THAT THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, THE LARGEST DRUG-TRAFFICKING RING IN THE WORLD, HAD DECLARED AN ALL-OUT "WAR" AGAINST FOREIGN JOURNALISTS WHO REMAIN COLOMBIA.</p><p>LIKEWISE, COLOMBIAN JOURNALISTS WERE THREATENED A FEW DAYS AFTER THE GOVERNMENT'S OFFENSIVE BEGAN, IN REPRISAL FOR THE HARD BLOWS DEALT TO THE DRUG CARTEL, IN THE PAST 3 WEEKS.</p><p>IN A STATEMENT FOR A FRENCH NEWSPAPER, PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA, THE MEDELLIN CARTEL'S MAIN "CAPO" SAID THAT JOURNALISTS AND JUDGES "WILL PAY THE CONSEQUENCES" OF THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUGGLE, WHICH HAS RESULTED IN HUNDREDS OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS ARRESTED AND NUMEROUS PROPERTIES OWNED BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS CONFISCATED.</p><p>THE ATTACK AGAINST THE UNIVISION JOURNALISTS OCCURRED SIMULTANEOUSLY WITH AN ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE POLICE IN ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT -- THE CAPITAL OF WHICH IS MEDELLIN -- OF THE ARREST OF FOUR DRUG TRAFFICKERS WHOSE EXTRADITION MAY HAVE BEEN REQUESTED BY THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>THE NAMES OF THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS WERE NOT DISCLOSED TO THE PRESS. HOWEVER, IT WAS LEARNED THAT THEIR ARREST TOOK PLACE DURING INTENSIVE OPERATIONS WHICH TOOK PLACE IN THIS CITY DURING THE PAST FEW HOURS AS A RESULT OF WHICH 21 MERCENARIES OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL HAVE FALLEN.</p><p>MEMBERS OF THE SAME NARCOTICS-TRAFFICKING ORGANIZATION DETONATED TWO BOMBS IN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND SET A RESTAURANT ON FIRE IN MEDELLIN, POLICE SPOKESMEN REPORTED.</p></body></html>