<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0233"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0233"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BRASILIA (BRAZIL)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0233</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0233 (ADS)</p><p>BRASILIA (BRAZIL), 2 JUN 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] COLOMBIAN GUERRILLAS TODAY RELEASED THREE BRAZILIAN ENGINEERS WHO WERE KIDNAPPED MORE THAN A MONTH AGO IN BOGOTA. ENGINEERS AUGUSTO CARNEIRO MOREIRA JUNIOR, CESAR PAIM DE OLIVEIRA, AND JOSE ROBERTO REIS WERE RELEASED TODAY BY THE NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY GUERRILLAS OF COLOMBIA. THE OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT WAS MADE BY ACTING FOREIGN MINISTER PAULO TARSO FLECHA DE LIMA AFTER RECEIVING A PHONE CALL FROM THE BRAZILIAN AMBASSADOR TO COLOMBIA, ALVARO FRANCO, AND DETAILS OF THE OUTCOME OF THIS CASE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [FLECHA DE LIMA] I DO NOT HAVE DETAILS ON HOW THIS HAPPENED. THOSE DETAILS MUST BE EVALUATED. [END RECORDING]</p><p>BERMEJA. FROM THERE THEY WERE TAKEN TO BOGOTA, CAPITAL OF COLOMBIA, WHERE THEY BOARDED A PLANE THAT WILL FLY TO RIO DE JANEIRO AFTER A STOPOVER IN MANAUS.</p><p>PETROBRAS HAS RELEASED AN OFFICIAL NOTE SAYING THAT TWO OF THREE ENGINEERS WHO WERE KIDNAPPED IN COLOMBIA AND RELEASED TODAY WILL ARRIVE IN RIO DE JANEIRO EARLY TOMORROW MORNING. ENGINEERS AUGUSTO CARNEIRO MOREIRA JUNIOR AND JOSE ROBERTO REIS WERE SET FREE TODAY IN THE TOWN OF BARRANCA BERMEJA, WITH THE RECOMMENDATION THAT THEY TAKE A TAXI TO A HOTEL IN BUCARAMANGA WHERE THE KIDNAPPERS HAD MET WITH THE TEAM OF NEGOTIATORS -- PETROBRAS REPRESENTATIVE RAIMUNDO DE OLIVEIRA, RIO DE JANEIRO OIL WORKERS UNION REPRESENTATIVE [NAME INDISTINCT], AND REPRESENTATIVES OF CUT.</p><p>ACCORDING TO ITAMARATY, THE NEGOTIATORS ACTED IN A IRREPROACHABLE MANNER. ENGINEER PAULO CESAR PAIM DE OLIVEIRA REMAINED IN COLOMBIA WITH HIS RELATIVES. THIS INFORMATION WAS MADE PUBLIC TONIGHT BY PETROBRAS. ITAMARATY ALSO REPORTED THAT THE HOSTAGES WERE RELEASED WITHOUT PAYING RANSOM, SINCE THE COLOMBIAN GUERRILLAS WERE SEEKING ONLY PUBLICITY FOR THEIR MOVEMENT.</p></body></html>