<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1090"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1090"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1090</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1090 (UNISYS)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 6 FEB 90 (CNA) -- [TEXT] PRESIDENT RAFAEL LEONARDO CALLEJAS ROMERO SAID TUESDAY HONDURAS IS FACING AN EXTREMELY CHALLENGING SITUATION AND THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA CAN HELP A GREAT DEAL IN SOLVING THE PROBLEMS CONFRONTING HIS COUNTRY.</p><p>CALLEJAS, INAUGURATED ON JAN. 27, TOLD THE CNA HONDURAS IS FACING A CRISIS WHICH HIS NEW ADMINISTRATION, WITH HELP AND SUPPORT FROM THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA, WILL BE ABLE TO TIDE OVER.</p><p>HONDURAS LACKS FOREIGN EXCHANGE TO BUY OIL, MEDICINE AND FOOD FROM ABROAD. TEGUCIGALPA'S FOREIGN DEBTS TOTAL WELL OVER U.S. DLRS [DOLLARS] 200 MILLION. "WE ARE FACING A STEEP SHORTAGE OF BASIC FOODS, CORN IN PARTICULAR," CALLEJAS SAID.</p><p>A POTENTIALLY RICH COUNTRY, HONDURAS CAN OVERCOME ALL ITS DIFFICULT PROBLEMS AND ACHIEVE PROSPERITY IN THE LONG RUN, BUT IT NEEDS A SHOT IN THE ARM, CALLEJAS SAID.</p><p>THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA, CALLEJAS APPEALED, CAN EXTEND "SHORT-TERM BRIDGE LOANS" TO HONDURAS TO HELP SOLVE THE PROBLEMS OF ACUTE SHORTAGE IN FOOD AND OTHER NECESSITIES. "A SHORT-TERM CREDIT OF DLRS 5 MILLION, FOR INSTANCE, CAN HELP US MAKE UP FOR THE SHORTAGE AND THEN WE CAN MOVE AHEAD," CALLEJAS SAID.</p><p>"THE SITUATION IS A CRITICAL ONE," CALLEJAS SAID, "BUT WE WILL BE ABLE TO COPE WITH IT AND SURGE AHEAD FOR GREATER PROSPERITY, AND WHAT WE NOW NEED IS A SHORT-TERM HELP FROM OUR FRIENDS IN THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA."</p><p>HE SAID THE PEOPLE OF HONDURAS HAVE YET TO SENSE THE CRISIS THEY ARE FACING NOW. THE FINANCIAL CRISIS, IN PARTICULAR, IS COMPARABLE TO THE ONE THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA FACED IN AND SHORTLY AFTER 1950.</p><p>"MY ADMINISTRATION KNOWS WHAT SHALL BE DONE," CALLEJAS SAID. HE WILL LET THE PEOPLE FULLY UNDERSTAND THE CRISIS AND CULTIVATE A SENSE OF CRISIS THAT IS NEEDED TO RALLY THEMSELVES BEHIND THE GOVERNMENT TO MOVE FORWARD.</p><p>THE PEOPLE OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA HAVE SET A "GOOD EXAMPLE" FOR OTHER NATIONS IN CRISIS TO FOLLOW, CALLEJAS SAID. "OVER THE PAST 40 YEARS," HE POINTED OUT, "YOU HAVE DEMONSTRATED WHAT CAN BE DONE TO OVERCOME THE DIFFICULTIES AND ACHIEVE PROSPERITY."</p><p>ASIDE FROM THE SHORT-TERM CREDIT, THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA CAN SEND A HIGH-LEVEL MISSION TO ADVISE HONDURAS ON HOW TO SOLVE ITS LONG-TERM FINANCIAL PROBLEM, CALLEJAS SAID. "YOUR COUNTRY HAS EXPERIENCE IN THIS FIELD," HE ADDED, "AND WE HOPE WE WILL BENEFIT FROM YOUR EXPERIENCE."</p><p>ANOTHER FIELD OF COOPERATION BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES IS TRADE AND INVESTMENT, CALLEJAS SAID. HONDURAS IS SETTING UP AN INDUSTRIAL PARK, AND INVESTMENT FROM THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA IS MORE THAN WELCOME, HE ADDED.</p><p>THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA IS OPENING ITS MARKET TO FOREIGN IMPORTS, AND A SMALL PERCENTAGE OF TAIWAN'S TOBACCO MARKET, IF HONDURAS CAN EARN IT, "WILL HELP A GREAT DEAL AND START A CHAIN ACTION OF DEVELOPMENT," CALLEJAS SAID. THE FOREIGN EXCHANGE GENERATED FROM THE SALES OF TOBACCO CAN BE USED TO PAY BACK SOME OF TEGUCIGALPA'S FOREIGN DEBT. THE REPAYMENT WILL EARN MORE INTERNATIONAL CREDIT, WHICH IN TURN SUPPORTS OTHER PROJECTS OF DEVELOPMENT.</p><p>THE PRESENCE OF A U.N. MILITARY OBSERVER GROUP IN HONDURAS, CALLEJAS SAID, WILL HELP STABILIZE THE SITUATION IN CENTRAL AMERICA. THE MISSION IS TO HELP EASE THE TENSION ALONG THE BORDERS OF EL SALVADOR AND NICARAGUA, WHICH WAS HEIGHTENED BY GUERRILLA ACTIVITIES.</p><p>CALLEJAS HAS VISITED THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA TWICE BEFORE. HE TOURED THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA AS MINISTER OF NATURAL RESOURCES IN 1968 AND AGAIN AS CHAIRMAN OF THE NATIONAL PARTY IN 1988.</p><p>ASKED IF HE WOULD ATTEND THE PRESIDENTIAL INAUGURATION IN TAIPEI ON MAY 20, CALLEJAS SAID HE WOULD "TRY MY BEST TO GO (TO TAIPEI) MYSELF." IF HE IS UNABLE TO ATTEND, HE ADDED, HE WILL SEND HIS PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL CONGRESS, RODOLFO IRIAS NAVAS.</p><p>"IF I CANNOT VISIT THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA IN MAY," CALLEJAS SAID, "I WILL MAKE A VISIT TO YOUR COUNTRY BEFORE THE END OF THIS YEAR." MOST LIKELY, HE ADDED, HE WILL PAY A STATE VISIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA IN NOVEMBER.</p><p>IN RETURN, CALLEJAS SAID, "WE WILL BE HONORED TO HAVE YOUR PRESIDENT, PRESIDENT LI, VISIT US."</p><p>RELATIONS BETWEEN HONDURAS AND THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA ARE "EXTREMELY CLOSE ONES," CALLEJAS SAID. "AND WE IN HONDURAS HOPE TO FURTHER CEMENT THOSE EXTREMELY GOOD RELATIONS," HE POINTED OUT.</p><p>SUCH GOOD RELATIONSHIPS SHOULD NOT BE MONOPOLIZED BY THE GOVERNMENTS, CALLEJAS SAID. "WE NEED MORE CONTACT AMONG THE PEOPLE IN ALL WALKS OF LIFE, ON CULTURAL, SOCIAL AND COMMERCIAL LEVELS, SO THAT WE MAY CONTINUE IMPROVING THE EXTREMELY GOOD RELATIONSHIP THAT HAS EXISTED BETWEEN OUR TWO COUNTRIES," HE POINTED OUT.</p></body></html>