<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0296"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0296"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CARACAS (VENEZUELA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0296</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0296 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>CARACAS (VENEZUELA), 17 JUL 89 (VENEZOLANA DE TELEVISION CANAL 8) -- [INTERVIEW WITH VENEZUELAN DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL FILMO LOPEZ UZCATEGUI BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [TEXT] [LOPEZ] WE HAVE REPORTS THAT NORBERTO RODRIGUEZ [PRESIDENT PEREZ' BROTHER-IN-LAW] COULD STILL BE IN THE BORDER REGION, NEAR THE SPOT WHERE HE WAS KIDNAPPED BY THOSE PEOPLE. WE DO NOT KNOW WHO THE KIDNAPPERS ARE. WE ARE WORKING ON THIS.</p><p>[REPORTER] HAVE YOU STEPPED UP SURVEILLANCE IN THE AREA? HAS FINDING THE STATION WAGON GIVEN YOU ANY CLUES?</p><p>[LOPEZ] YES, OF COURSE, WE ARE LOOKING INTO THIS. THE COLOMBIAN POLICE HAVE THE INFORMATION AND ARE WORKING BASED ON THIS.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT ABOUT A RANSOM? HAS THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT BEEN CONTACTED?</p><p>[LOPEZ] THERE HAS BEEN NO CONTACT. WE ARE HOPING THERE WILL BE A CONTACT SO THAT WE CAN PROCEED FROM THERE.</p><p>[REPORTER] IS IT TRUE A RANSOM HAS BEEN DEMANDED?</p><p>[LOPEZ] I HAVE NO PROOF OF THAT. I DO NOT HAVE THAT INFORMATION.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT IS THE MOST RECENT INFORMATION THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT HAS RECEIVED?</p><p>[LOPEZ] WE WERE BRIEFED ON THE WORK BEING COORDINATED WITH THE COLOMBIAN AUTHORITIES. WE ARE WORKING VERY CLOSELY WITH THEM, LIKE BROTHERS. THE TWO ARMIES AND THE AUTHORITIES ARE WORKING TOGETHER.</p><p>[REPORTER] IF A RANSOM IS DEMANDED, IS THE GOVERNMENT WILLING TO PAY IT?</p><p>[LOPEZ] I CANNOT ANSWER THAT QUESTION; THAT WOULD DEPEND ON RODRIGUEZ' FAMILY.</p><p>[REPORTER] THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT HAS MUCH EXPERIENCE WITH KIDNAPPINGS. WHAT DO THEY SAY ABOUT THIS CASE? WHAT DO THEY THINK THE OUTCOME WILL BE?</p><p>[LOPEZ] WE ALWAYS WORK BASED ON OUR EXPERIENCE WITH SIMILAR CASES. THIS KIDNAPPING COULD HAVE BEEN CARRIED OUT BY THE REBELS, AND WE ALREADY KNOW HOW THE REBELS OPERATE. HE ALSO COULD HAVE BEEN KIDNAPPED BY COMMON CRIMINALS. EVEN THOUGH IT MAY SEEM THAT THE CASE WOULD BE HANDLED SIMILARLY IN BOTH INSTANCES, IT IS NOT SO. WE ARE GOING TO WAIT A BIT LONGER. WE BELIEVE WE MAY GET MORE INFORMATION TODAY.</p><p>[REPORTER] IT IS NOT VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT POLICY TO PAY RANSOM IN CASES SUCH AS THIS ONE. WILL AN EXCEPTION BE MADE IN THIS CASE?</p><p>[LOPEZ] I BELIEVE WE SHOULD FOLLOW OUR POLICY. THERE ARE MEANS THAT CAN BE USED TO REACH AN UNDERSTANDING; THIS WOULD HAPPEN ONCE WE HAVE SPECIFIC INFORMATION.</p></body></html>