<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1057"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1057"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1057</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1057 (TRW)</p><p>BOGOTA, 19 JAN 90 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [STATEMENT] [TEXT] IN RESPONSE TO REPORTS DISSEMINATED BY THE MEDIA WITH REGARD TO THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING AND TERRORISM, THE COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT ADVISES THE COLOMBIA PEOPLE OF THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>1. THE GOVERNMENT'S FIRM, COHERENT, AND EFFICIENT POLICY TO ENFORCE THE LAW HAS HAD SIGNIFICANT RESULTS WITH REGARD TO THE CONTROL OF DRUG TRAFFICKING AND TERRORIST ACTIVITIES. THAT POLICY HAS CREATED A NEW SITUATION, WHICH HAS RAISED A NUMBER OF EXPECTATIONS AMONG THE PEOPLE.</p><p>2. THE ACTIONS CONDUCTED BY THE ARMED FORCES, THE NATIONAL POLICE, AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY HAVE BEEN SUCCESSFUL. THEY WILL CONTINUE TO BE CARRIED OUT TO COMPLETE THE DISMANTLING OF GROUPS OF MURDERERS AND NARCO-TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS.</p><p>3. THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT AND THE ALL THE COLOMBIAN AUTHORITIES WILL CONTINUE TO FULFILL THEIR DUTY OF ENFORCING THE LAW AND BRINGING CRIMINALS BEFORE JUSTICE ACCORDING TO CONSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL PROCEDURES AND THE OPTIONS OFFERED BY THE LAW.</p><p>4. THE STATEMENTS BY FOUR FORMER COLOMBIAN PRESIDENTS, BY THE CARDINAL AND ARCHBISHOP OF COLOMBIA, AND BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE PATRIOTIC UNION ARE PATRIOTIC ACTIONS INTENDED TO SPARE COLOMBIANS MORE SUFFERING AND PAIN. THE GOVERNMENT HIGHLY APPRECIATES THE MEANING OF THOSE STATEMENTS. THOSE STATEMENTS REPRESENT THE THREE COLOMBIAN PARTIES AND THE CHURCH. [SENTENCE AS HEARD]</p><p>5. THE COUNTRY HAS ACTED WITH CALM, CAUTION, REALISM, AND RESPONSIBILITY. THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE DID NOT LET THEMSELVES BE CARRIED AWAY BY RECKLESS EXPECTATIONS. THE COUNTRY MUST MAINTAIN THAT ATTITUDE.</p><p>6. AUTHORIZED MEDIA SPOKESMEN HAVE MENTIONED THE MANY QUESTIONS THAT THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE ASK THEMSELVES CONCERNING THAT SITUATION, WHICH ONLY THE FUTURE CAN CONVINCINGLY CLARIFY.</p><p>7. THE COUNTRY LONGS FOR THE COMPLETE END TO CRIMES, MURDERS, AND ATTACKS AGAINST PUBLIC OFFICIALS, NEWSMEN, POLITICAL LEADERS, AND MEN, WOMEN, AND CHILDREN. THE COUNTRY LONGS FOR THE RELEASE OF ALL THOSE WHO HAVE BEEN ABDUCTED AND THE DEFINITIVE SUSPENSION OF DRUG TRAFFICKING ACTIVITIES.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT'S POLICY AND THE ENORMOUS SACRIFICES COURAGEOUSLY MADE BY THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE SEEK THOSE OBJECTIVES, AMONG OTHER THINGS.</p><p>8. NOW THAT THE STATE'S VICTORY AND THE NEED TO ABIDE BY THE COUNTRY'S LAW ARE ADMITTED, WE MUST WALK ALONG THE BEST PATH TO ENSURE THE FINAL SUCCESS OF THE GOVERNMENT'S POLICY, WHICH HAS BEEN SUPPORTED BY THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE AND THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY.</p></body></html>