<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1191"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1191"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1191</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1191 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>LIMA, 16 MAR 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE MAOIST SHINING PATH TERRORIST ORGANIZATION AND THE TUPAC AMARU REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT (MRTA) ARE STAGING ATTACKS IN AN ATTEMPT TO MAKE THE PEOPLE BOYCOTT THE 8 APRIL PERUVIAN ELECTIONS.</p><p>A BOMB EXPLODED EARLY THIS MORNING NEAR THE HOUSE OF HEALTH MINISTER PAUL CARO GAMARRA. CARO'S WIFE SAID THAT THE HOUSE, WHICH IS IN THE PORT OF EL CALLAO, LACKS POLICE PROTECTION.</p><p>THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE CENTER-RIGHTIST DEMOCRATIC FRONT (FREDEMO), WHOSE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE IS THE WRITER MARIO VARGAS LLOSA, WAS BOMBED LAST NIGHT. THE MRTA CLAIMED THE ATTACK THROUGH LEAFLETS LEFT AT THE SCENE.</p><p>THE MRTA ALSO PLANTED EXPLOSIVES AND LEFT LEAFLETS BESIDE FIVE FREDEMO PLACARDS.</p><p>FORTY MEMBERS OF FREDEMO WERE AT THE HEADQUARTERS, WHICH IS ON AN IMPORTANT LIMA AVENUE, WHEN THE ATTACK OCCURRED. NOBODY WAS INJURED. DAVID CIFUENTES, A DEPUTY CANDIDATE OF THE RULING AMERICAN POPULAR REVOLUTIONARY ALLIANCE (APRA) TODAY SAID THAT THERE IS A TERRORIST PLOT TO KILL THE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES.</p><p>ON 14 MARCH CIFUENTES ESCAPED UNHARMED FROM AN ATTACK ON THE CAR IN WHICH HE WAS TRAVELLING. HIS BODYGUARD DIED IN THE ATTACK WHICH OCCURRED 40 KM FROM THE CITY OF CAJAMARCA.</p><p>THE TERRORISTS PLACED BIG STONES AT A CURVE IN THE ROAD WHICH CAUSED THE VEHICLE TO RUN OFF THE ROAD. THE ATTACKERS THEN OPENED FIRE ON THE CAR.</p><p>CIFUENTES FELL OUT OF THE VEHICLE AND BROKE HIS ARM IN TWO PLACES, AND IS NOW IN HOSPITAL.</p><p>SHINING PATH MEMBERS RECENTLY MURDERED 19 PEOPLE, INCLUDING 10 CHILDREN, IN A SMALL VILLAGE NEAR HUANCAYO CITY, 415 KM SOUTH OF LIMA. THIS ACT CLEARLY SHOWS THAT THE MAOISTS ARE DETERMINED TO CONTINUE KILLING AND DESTROYING.</p><p>SOME 300 PEOPLE WERE MURDERED BY THE SHINING PATH DURING THE BOYCOTT OF THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS ON 12 NOVEMBER 1989.</p><p>THE ATTACKS PERPETRATED BY THE MRTA LAST NIGHT BELIES THE ALLEGED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THEY WILL CEASE TO USE VIOLENCE. THIS ANNOUNCEMENT WAS PUBLISHED BY A LOCAL NEWSPAPER TWO DAYS AGO.</p><p>UNITED LEFT DEPUTY GUSTAVO ESPINOSA, IN A STATEMENT TO THE DAILY ONDA, SAID THAT IF THE MRTA IS TRULY SEEKING A POLITICAL WAY TO TURN IN THEIR WEAPONS "THEY WOULD CONTRIBUTE TO THE PACIFICATION OF THE COUNTRY."</p><p>HOWEVER, ESPINOSA SAID THAT ONE CANNOT CONSIDER AN END TO THE VIOLENCE UNTIL THERE IS MORE PROOF OF THEIR ANNOUNCEMENT.</p><p>DURING THE PAST 10 YEARS, THE SHINING PATH AND THE MRTA HAVE PERPETRATED MORE THAN 16,000 ATTACKS WHICH HAVE CAUSED DAMAGE ESTIMATED AT $10,000. THIS ESTIMATE WAS PREPARED BY THE CONGRESSIONAL COMMISSION IN CHARGE OF ASSESSING THE EFFECTS AND CAUSES OF POLITICAL VIOLENCE IN PERU.</p><p>DURING PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA'S TERM OF OFFICE THE TERRORISTS HAVE PERPETRATED 10,621 ATTACKS, WHICH REPRESENTS AN AVERAGE OF MORE THAN SIX ATTACKS PER DAY DURING HIS FIVE YEARS IN POWER.</p><p>FATAL VICTIMS OF POLITICAL VIOLENCE AMOUNT TO APPROXIMATELY 19,000, OF WHICH 700 HAVE DIED DURING 1990.</p></body></html>