<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0919"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0919"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0919</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0919 (GTE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 1 DEC 89 (RADIO CADENA CUSCATLAN) -- [TEXT] THE NATIONAL GUARD HAS CAPTURED THE ACTUAL PERPETRATORS, AS WELL AS ACCOMPLICES AND HARBORERS, IN THE CASE OF THE ATTACK ON THE ARMED FORCES JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF ON 30 OCTOBER.</p><p>THE NATIONAL GUARD REPORTED THAT IT ARRESTED 15 PEOPLE LAST WEEK AT VARIOUS PLACES IN HERE IN SAN SALVADOR AND OTHER PERSONS AT THE OFFICES OF THE SO-CALLED AWARENESS FOR SPIRITUAL AND ECONOMIC RECOVERY OF MAN [CONCIENTIZACION PARA RECUPERACION ESPIRITUAL Y ECONOMICA DEL HOMBRE, CREDHO], AT THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH ON 63 SOUTH AVENUE AND OLIMPICA AVENUE IN SAN SALVADOR. SEVERAL PERSONS WHO WERE HELD HOSTAGE THERE ON 30 OCTOBER LATER APPEARED AT THE CENTRAL POLICE HEADQUARTERS TO REPORT THE ABUSE.</p><p>WHEN NATIONAL GUARD PERSONNEL BEGAN THE SUBSEQUENT INVESTIGATION THAT SAME DAY, IT WAS DISCOVERED THAT THE ARRESTED PERSONS HAD COMMITTED OTHER ACTIONS IN VIOLATION OF OUR LAWS AND AGAINST THE COUNTRY'S SECURITY. AFTER DETERMINING THAT THIS EPISCOPAL CHURCH WAS VISITED BY PERSONS INVOLVED IN SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES AND THAT IT HARBORED A GROUP THAT IS AN FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] FRONT, THE PLACE WAS SEARCH AND IT WAS DISCOVERED THAT, IN ADDITION TO THE CHURCH, OFFICES OF CREDHO ALSO OPERATED THERE -- CREDHO IS AN AFFILIATE OF AN ORGANIZATION THEY CALL DIACOMIAS; THAT 60 PERSONS ARE EMPLOYED THERE; THAT MOST OF THOSE PERSONS ARE NOT PARISHIONERS, BUT CREDHO EMPLOYEES; THAT CREDHO'S DIRECTOR IS A PRIEST OF SPANISH ORIGIN NAMED LUIS SERRANO LORENTE; AND THAT THIS PRIEST IS NOW A NATURALIZED SALVADORAN.</p><p>THERE THE NATIONAL GUARD PERSONNEL ARRESTED JOSE HORACIO GUZMAN RIVAS, JOSE EDUARDO SANCHEZ CASTILLO, LUIS GUSTAVO LOPEZ MAGANA, JOSE VIDAL ENAMORADO DIAZ, ELBA RUTH ALFARO VALENCIA, ALEX ANTONIO TOVAR FLORES, JOSE CANDELARIO AGUILAR ALVAREZ, AND RANDOLFO CAMPO BENAVIDES. IN CONNECTION WITH THE SAME CASE, THEY ALSO ARRESTED JUAN ANTONIO VERSICO NUNEZ, ANA JULIO RODRIGUEZ, AND JOSE FRANCISCO PASTORANGES AT VARIOUS PLACES IN THE CIUDAD SATELITE NEIGHBORHOOD. LATER ON, LUIS SERRANO LORENTE, PASTOR OF THIS ANGLICAN CHURCH, WAS ARRESTED IN THE LOMAS VERDES NEIGHBORHOOD. JULIO CESAR CASTRO RAMIREZ AND JULIO EUGENIA AGUILERA ESCOBAR WERE LATER ARRESTED IN SANTA ANA, AND, LASTLY, AIDA MARGARITA GOMEZ DE LEON WAS ARRESTED IN THE DON BOSCO RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD IN SANTA TECLA.</p><p>SERRANO SAID HE IS THE DIRECTOR OF CREDHO AND RESPONSIBLE FOR THE AFOREMENTIONED CHURCH. HE ASSERTED THAT HE LEARNED ON 29 OCTOBER THAT IN THE CHURCHYARD TWO TRUCKS WERE LOADED WITH EXPLOSIVES, WHICH WERE HURLED THE NEXT DAY AT THE MILITARY COMPLEX OF THE ARMED FORCES JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF. HE DECIDED TO REMAIN SILENT ABOUT THIS, THEREBY COVERING FOR THE TERRORIST CRIMINALS WHO MURDER HUMBLE WORKING PEOPLE. SERRANO ALSO SAID THAT CREDHO IS FINANCED BY A FRONT GROUP CALLED DIACOMIAS, WHICH HAS NO LEGAL STATUS, BUT IS THE CHANNEL FOR AID THAT IS SENT IN CASH BY SO-CALLED SOLIDARITY CHURCHES AND ASSOCIATIONS ORGANIZED IN SWEDEN, BRITAIN, NETHERLANDS, CANADA, THE UNITED STATES, AND AUSTRALIA. THIS MONEY IS DISTRIBUTED TO LUTHERAN, CATHOLIC, EMANUEL BAPTIST, AND EPISCOPAL CHURCHES, AS WELL AS TO THE FOUNDATION FOR PROMOTION OF COOPERATIVES [FUNDACION PROMOTORA DE COOPERATIVAS, FUNPROCOOP] AND THE FEDERATION OF COOPERATIVES FOR DEVELOPMENT [FEDERACION DE COOPERATIVAS PARA EL DESARROLLO, FEDECOOPADE]. THESE GROUPS COMPRISE DIACOMIAS AND TWICE A MONTH, ONE REPRESENTATIVE FROM EACH GROUP MEETS AT THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH TO DISCUSS DISTRIBUTION OF THESE LARGE AMOUNTS OF MONEY, MOST OF WHICH, HE SAID, IS DELIVERED TO LOW INCOME COMMUNITIES THEY HAVE ORGANIZED THAT ARE DIRECTED BY THE FMLN FRONT GROUPS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>