<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0521"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0521"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0521</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0521 (UMASS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 26 SEP 89 (REUTER) -- [TEXT] THE M-19 GUERRILLA GROUP [19 APRIL MOVEMENT], WHICH IS ABOUT TO SIGN A PEACE AGREEMENT WITH THE GOVERNMENT, TODAY PROPOSED OPENING A DIALOGUE WITH THE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS. ACCORDING TO THE INTELLIGENCE SERVICES, ONE OF THE DRUG LORDS IS SURROUNDED.</p><p>MEANWHILE, A POWERFUL BOMB EXPLODED IN A HOTEL IN THE CARTAGENA DE INDIAS TOURIST CENTER, ON THE CARIBBEAN, KILLING TWO PERSONS. IT IS BELIEVED THE BOMB WAS PLACED BY GROUPS LINKED TO NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS.</p><p>THE M-19 PROPOSED PARDONING THOSE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS WHO DISMANTLE THEIR BUSINESSES AND BECOME LAW-ABIDING.</p><p>IN RADIO STATEMENTS MADE TODAY, M-19 COMMANDER CARLOS PIZARRO LEONGOMEZ SAID THAT THE GUERRILLA ORGANIZATION HAS MADE CONTACT WITH THE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS, WHO HAVE REPORTEDLY SAID THEY ARE WILLING TO JOIN A GENERAL PEACE PLAN.</p><p>THE PROPOSAL WAS SIGNED BY THE HIERARCHY OF THE M-19 -- FOUNDED IN 1974 AND ONE OF THE MOST NOTORIOUS COLOMBIAN GUERRILLA GROUPS -- IN THEIR CAMP IN SANTO DOMINGO, SOME 400 KM SOUTHWEST OF BOGOTA.</p><p>IN EXCHANGE FOR DISMANTLING THE LABORATORIES AND THE ARMED GROUPS, THE M-19 PROPOSED NOT EXTRADITING THE ALLEGED NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS TO THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>THE M-19 PROPOSAL HAS TAKEN BY SURPRISE THE GOVERNMENT OF VIRGILIO BARCO, INASMUCH AS IT HAD VOICED ITS DETERMINATION NOT TO HOLD ANY DIALOGUE WITH THE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS, A JUDICIAL SOURCE HAS TOLD REUTER.</p><p>"THE ISSUE OF THE DIALOGUE IS BECOMING VERY SERIOUS AND I BELIEVE THAT THE GOVERNMENT WILL HAVE TO TAKE IT SERIOUSLY A WAR ALWAYS CONCLUDES WITH A PEACE AGREEMENT," ONE OF THE ADVISERS OF FORMER JUSTICE MINISTER MONICA DE GREIFF SAID.</p><p>THE M-19 PROPOSAL, WHICH INCLUDES A PLAN SO THE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS THEMSELVES WILL FINANCE A CAMPAIGN AGAINST DRUG CONSUMPTION, HAS NOT BEEN ACCEPTED YET BY THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>IN AN OFFICIAL COMMUNIQUE, IT WAS STRESSED THAT THE ISSUE OF THE DIALOGUE WITH THE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS WILL NOT FORM PART OF THE PEACE AGREEMENT REACHED WITH THE M-19.</p><p>RELATIONS BETWEEN THE COLOMBIAN GUERRILLA GROUPS AND THE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS HAVE HAD THEIR UPS AND DOWNS THROUGHOUT THE YEARS.</p><p>AT FIRST, SOME ARMED GROUPS GAVE PROTECTION TO THE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS IN EXCHANGE FOR MONEY FOR PURCHASING WEAPONS. HOWEVER, LATER, WHEN THEY TRIED TO TAKE OVER PART OF THE BUSINESS, THEY WERE HARSHLY FOUGHT BY THE PARAMILITARY BANDS OF THE EXTREME RIGHT FINANCED WITH DRUG MONEY.</p><p>PIZARRO SAID TODAY THAT THE TOPIC WILL NOT AFFECT THE SIGNING OF THE AGREEMENT, WHICH HAS BEEN POSTPONED SINCE 24 SEPTEMBER FOR "LAST-MINUTE MINOR DIFFICULTIES."</p><p>HE ALSO POINTED OUT THAT THE WEAPONS OF THE ORGANIZATION, WHICH HAS OVER 600 MILITANTS, WILL NOT BE TURNED OVER TO THE ARMY, BUT TO AN INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION, PROBABLY THE RED CROSS.</p><p>HOWEVER, WHILE THE M-19 -- WHICH ACCORDING TO THE PEACE PLAN SHOULD BE DEMOBILIZED AT THE END OF THE YEAR -- IS ASKING FOR A DIALOGUE WITH THE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS, THE INTELLIGENCE SERVICES ANNOUNCED THAT GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA, ALSO KNOWN AS "EL MEXICANO," IS SURROUNDED AND WILL BE IMMINENTLY CAPTURED.</p><p>A SPOKESMAN FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY (DAS) HAS TOLD REUTER: "WE BELIEVE WE WILL BE CAPTURING IMPORTANT PEOPLE WITHIN THE NEXT FEW DAYS, ALTHOUGH WE DO NOT KNOW IF RODRIGUEZ GACHA WILL ALSO BE CAPTURED."</p><p>RODRIGUEZ GACHA AND PABLO ESCOBAR ARE CONSIDERED THE CAPOS OF THE FEARFUL MEDELLIN CARTEL, A NARCOTICS ORGANIZATION WHICH TOGETHER WITH ITS TWIN ORGANIZATION IN CALI IS CHARGED WITH EXPORTING 80 PERCENT OF THE COCAINE CONSUMED IN THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT HAS OFFERED A 100-MILLION-PESOS REWARD ($250,000) TO ANY CITIZEN PROVIDING INFORMATION ON THE WHEREABOUTS OF THE TWO MOST-WANTED MEN IN COLOMBIA.</p><p>ON 25 SEPTEMBER, A JUDGE ORDERED THE ARRESTED OF FREDDY RODRIGUEZ CELADES, SON OF "EL MEXICANO," FOR ILLEGAL PSSESSION OF FIREARMS.</p><p>NATIONAL POLICE CHIEF GENERAL MIGUEL GOMEZ PADILLA RECENTLY ANNOUNCED THAT THE TWO NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS ARE IN COLOMBIAN TERRITORY, THUS DENYING RUMORS TO THE EFFECT THEY WERE SETTING UP BASES IN PANAMA OR BRAZIL.</p></body></html>