<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0740"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0740"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0740</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0740 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 14 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION, ATTENTION, SALVADORAN PEOPLE. THIS IS CADENA NACIONAL, THE NETWORK OF FREEDOM, THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S NETWORK. ATTENTION, SALVADORAN PEOPLE:</p><p>THE TERRORIST HORDES OF THE FARBUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN) HAVE BEEN DEFEATED BY OUR BRAVE ARMED FORCES, WHO HAVE GONE OUT TO DEFEND OUR SOVEREIGNTY, INTEGRITY, AND THE LIVES AND PROPERTIES OF ALL SALVADORANS.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ARE SUPPORTING THEIR ARMED FORCES AND PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI.</p><p>AT THIS TIME, THE FMLN CRIMINALS ARE RECEIVING THE PUNISHEMENT THEY DESERVE THROUGH THE GLORIOUS WEAPONS OF THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES.</p><p>THE COWARDLY FMLN TERRORIST GROUPS HAVE BEEN HIDING SINCE 11 NOVEMBER IN THE HOMES OF DEFENSELESS CIVILIANS. THEY ARE COWARDS. THEY ARE LIKE THOSE COWARD CRIMINALS WHO AFTER COMMITTING MURDER RUN TO HIDE BEHIND A WOMAN'S SKIRT. THAT IS WHAT THOSE TERRORISTS ARE DOING. THEY ARE HIDING UNDER THE BEDS OF THE POPULATION, WHICH IS SUFFERING BECAUSE OF THE TERRORISTS' ATTACKS. THEY ARE COWARDS WHO HAVE TREACHEROUSLY ATTACKED AND BOMBED THE PEOPLE.</p><p>A FEW HOURS AGO, THE LIAR TERRORIST JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS, FROM HIS HOTEL ROOM IN MANAGUA -- WHERE HE HAS AIR CONDITIONING AND LOTS OF FOOD -- SAID THAT THE FMLN HAS SEIZED POSITIONS, WHICH IS NOT TRUE. ALL TOWNS IN THE COUNTRY ARE UNDER THE GOVERNMENT'S POLITICAL CONTROL AND UNDER THE ARMED FORCES' MILITARY CONTROL.</p><p>WE MUST INFORM YOU THAT THERE ARE ONLY A FEW AREAS WHERE TERRORISTS HAVE SOUGHT REFUGE IN HOUSES AND ARE ACTING AS SNIPERS. HOWEVER, THE ARMED FORCES ARE TRYING TO DISLODGE THEM IN A PROFESSIONAL MANNER IN ORDER NOT TO HARM CIVILIANS.</p><p>THE COWARDS ARE HIDING IN A FEW AREAS. WE MUST TELL YOU THAT THE AREAS WHERE THERE IS SOME RESISTANCE ARE ILOPANGO, COLONIA SANTA LUCIA, SOYAPANGO, MEJICANOS, ZACAMIL, AYUTUXTEPEQUE, AND CIUDAD DELGADO.</p><p>SALVADORANS WHO ARE IN THOSE AREAS, VICTIMS OF THE TERRORISTS: FROM HERE YOUR SALVADORAN BROTHERS, YOUR BROTHERS IN THE ARMED FORCES, TELL YOU THAT WE ARE AT YOUR SIDE AT THIS TIME OF STRUGGLE, DURING THIS SAD TIME WHEN YOU ARE FACED WITH HUNGER AND DEATH THREATS BY THE FMLN TERRORIST HORDES. WE ARE AT YOUR SIDE, COMPATRIOT! WE ARE WITH YOU SALVADORAN PEOPLE! YOUR ARMED FORCES WILL NOT ABANDON YOU. YOU CAN BE SURE THAT ALL THIS WILL SOON BE OVER. WE WILL SOON DISLODGE THESE MANGY DOGS WHO HAVE COME WITH [NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT DANIEL] ORTEGA'S WEAPONS AND TERRORIST HORDES, WHO HAVE COME HERE TO MASSACRE THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. WE ARE WITH YOU COMPATRIOT! STAY WHERE YOU ARE. REMAIN CALM, AS YOU WILL SOON BE FREED FROM THE TERRORIST HORDES.</p><p>ILOPANGO, COLONIA SANTA LUCIA, SOYAPANGO, MEJICANOS, ZACAMIL, AYUTUXTEPEQUE, AND CIUDAD DELGADO: REMEMBER THAT YOUR GOVERNMENT AND CRISTIANI ARE AT THE HEAD OF THE ARMED FORCES, AND THAT YOUR ARMED FORCES ARE UNITEDLY, PROFESSIONALLY, AND PATRIOTICALLY STRUGGLING TO DEFEND YOU FROM THIS BRUTAL AND BESTIAL ATTACK THAT WE DENOUNCE BEFORE THE WORLD.</p><p>WHY IS IT THAT NO ONE SAYS ANYTHING? WHY DO JOURNALISTS IN EUROPE SAY NOTHING ABOUT WHAT IS HAPPENING? WHY DO THEY NOT TELL THE TRUTH? THEY ONLY REPEAT THE LIES OF RADIO VENCEREMOS AND THE LIAR RADIO FARABUNDO MARTI. THE PEOPLE'S TRUTH IS HERE. HERE IS THE TRUTH OF OUR PEOPLE, WHO HAVE ENDURED THE TERRORIST ATTACKS FOR 10 YEARS!</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE: BE BRAVE AND UNITED, FULL OF PATRIOTISM, AND SURE OF OUR VICTORY. OUR FATHERLAND IS FREE! OUR ARMED FORCES ARE GLORIOUSLY FIGHTING! FORWARD, ARMED FORCES! FORWARD, SALVADORAN PEOPLE!</p></body></html>