<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0505"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0505"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0505</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0505 (UMASS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 22 SEP 89 (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [REPORT] [CARLOS MARIO MARQUEZ] [TEXT] A FEW MINUTES AGO, DEFENSE AND PUBLIC SECURITY MINISTER GENERAL RAFAEL HUMBERTO LARIOS ANNOUNCED THAT THE ARMED FORCES ARE WILLING TO STUDY THE POSSIBILITY OF A TROOP REDUCTION IF AN AGREEMENT IS REACHED WITH THE LEFTIST REBELS OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT. GENERAL LARIOS MADE THESE STATEMENTS TO FOUR DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL MEDIA REPORTERS. HERE ARE EXCERPTS OF GENERAL LARIOS' STATEMENTS WHEN HE ANNOUNCED THAT THE ARMED FORCES WOULD CONSIDER A REDUCTION IN TROOPS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [LARIOS] [IN PROGRESS] ... WHEN IT INVOLVES DAMAGING THE INSTITUTION -- IN THIS CASE THE ARMED FORCES -- WE MUST UNDERSTAND THAT WE WERE NOT BORN ON A WHIM, OR BY HAPPENSTANCE OR ACCIDENT. WE ARE A CONSTITUTIONAL INSTITUTION AND THE CONSTITUTION HAS ESTABLISHED CLEAR TASKS FOR US. THUS, OUR INSTITUTION IS AUTHENTIC AND LEGAL.</p><p>BECAUSE OF THIS, THE CONCEPT OR CRITERIA OF A REDUCTION IN ARMED FORCES PERSONNEL CAN BE MANAGED IF IT IS BASED ON VERY PARTICULAR AND SPECIFIC TERMS. IF, FOR EXAMPLE, WE REACH A POLITICAL AGREEMENT WITH THE TERRORIST FORCES FOR THEIR PEACEFUL RETURN TO THE COUNTRY'S DEMOCRATIC LIFE, THEN THIS WOULD MEAN THE END OF THE ARMED CONFLICT. IT WOULD ALSO MEAN THAT WE, AS THE COUNTRY'S ARMED FORCES, WOULD HAVE TO STUDY AND RECONSIDER THE NEED FOR THE NUMBER OF TROOPS THAT WE PRESENTLY HAVE AVAILABLE TO CONFRONT AN IMPOSED SITUATION, AN AGGRESSION OF A MARXIST-LENINIST NATURE. IF AN AGREEMENT IN THIS SENSE IS REACHED, WE WOULD BE WILLING TO ANALYZE THE INSTITUTION'S INTERNAL SITUATION TO DETERMINE THE AMOUNT OF HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDED TO COMPLY WITH OUR CONSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITY. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THOSE WERE STATEMENTS BY THE DEFENSE MINISTER AT NOON. HE ANNOUNCED THAT THE ARMED FORCES WOULD BE WILLING TO STUDY A REDUCTION IN FORCES IF AN AGREEMENT IS REACHED BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND REBEL COMMISSIONS AT THE MEETING TO BE HELD IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, ON 16 AND 17 OCTOBER. GENERAL LARIOS SAID THAT PEACE WILL BE ATTAINED BEFORE THE ESTABLISHED DATE IF THE REBELS SHOW THEIR GOOD WILL TO END THE ARMED CONFLICT IN OUR COUNTRY. THIS WAS LAST MINUTE NEWS. THIS IS THE FIRST TIME A DEFENSE MINISTER HAS MADE SUCH AN ANNOUNCEMENT IN THE PAST 9 YEARS.</p></body></html>