<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0381"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0381"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0381</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0381 (BBN)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 25 AUG 89 (RADIO FARABUNDO MARTI) -- [TEXT] SALVADORAN PEOPLE, THIS IS RADIO FARABUNDO MARTI REPORTING A NEW HONDURAN ARMY RAID INTO SALVADORAN TERRITORY. WE ALSO ALERT THE HONDURAN PEOPLE AND THE CENTRAL AMERICAN COMMUNITY TO THIS INCURSION. HONDURAN PRESIDENT JOSE AZCONA HOYO HAS VIOLATED THE TELA AGREEMENTS.</p><p>AT 1400 ON 24 AUGUST, A HONDURAN ARMY PATROL ENTERED 3 KM INSIDE SALVADORAN TERRITORY AT EL MONO HAMLET IN NAHUATERIQUE JURISDICTION, MORAZAN DEPARTMENT. A FEW DAYS AGO, OTHER SALVADORAN ARMY PATROLS ENTERED LAS ARADAS HAMLET IN NAHUATERIQUE. WE REMIND YOU THAT IN THE PAST FEW DAYS WE HAVE BEEN REPORTING THESE RAIDS BY HONDURAN TROOPS IN LAS FILAS BORDER AREA IN WESTERN CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT. THERE HAVE ALSO BEEN RAIDS IN ARCATAO, WHERE HONDURAN TROOPS HAVE RANSACKED SCHOOLS, THREATENED TEACHERS, REPRESSED AREA RESIDENTS, SET FIRES, STOLE VILLAGERS' PROPERTY, AND KIDNAPPED SOME CITIZENS.</p><p>WE REPEAT OUR WARNING TO THE HONDURAN TROOPS, ESPECIALLY TO THE HONDURAN ARMY HIGH COMMAND AND GOVERNMENT. WE WILL NOT PERMIT MORE RAIDS AND OUTRAGES AGAINST CIVILIANS IN OUR TERRITORY. [WORDS INDISTINCT] OUR UNITS WILL ATTACK THE HONDURAN TROOPS. AZCONA HOYO, YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED. WE URGE THE HONDURAN PEOPLE TO TAKE ACTION AND DEMAND RESPECT FOR SALVADORAN SOVEREIGNTY BECAUSE THIS MEDDLING BY THE HONDURAN ARMY AND [WORDS INDISTINCT] IN OUR CONFLICT IS OUR CONCERN [WORDS INDISTINCT]. HONDURAN TROOPS, IN COMPLICITY WITH THE SALVADORAN ARMY, CARRY OUT ALL SORTS OF OUTRAGES.</p></body></html>