<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1063"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1063"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1063</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1063 (TRW)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 23 JAN 90 (TASS INTERNATIONAL SERVICE) -- [TEXT] FROM THE SOVIET POINT OF VIEW, THE QUESTION OF DELIVERIES OF WEAPONS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF EL SALVADOR TAKES ON, IN PRESENT CONDITIONS, A PARTICULAR SIGNIFICANCE. THIS WAS ANNOUNCED TODAY AT A BRIEFING BY GENNADIY GERASIMOV, HEAD OF THE USSR MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS INFORMATION DIRECTORATE, WHO REPORTED THE DEBATES OPENING IN THE U.S. CONGRESS ON GIVING U.S. MILITARY AID TO THAT COUNTRY.</p><p>IN RECENT TIMES, THE USSR FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESMAN NOTED, CERTAIN ADVANCES HAVE BEEN OUTLINED IN THE MATTER OF RENEWING DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE OPPOSING SIDES IN EL SALVADOR. HOWEVER, THE OPPONENTS OF NATIONAL RECONCILIATION IN THAT COUNTRY ARE TRYING TO PREVENT A CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE REBELS AND ARE COUNTING ON THE CONTINUATION OF BLOODSHED. THE EL SALVADOR PRESIDENT ALFONSO CRISTIAN CONFIRMED THE INVOLVEMENT OF TROOPS IN THE MURDER OF PRIESTS. A NEW VICTIM OF THE TERROR IS HECTOR OQUELI, EXECUTIVE SECRETARY OF THE SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE ON THE PROBLEMS OF THE COUNTRIES OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN BASIN AND ONE OF THE LEADERS OF THE NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT PARTY, SAID GENNADIY GERASIMOV.</p><p>THE LEADERSHIP OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, THE SOVIET DIPLOMAT NOTED, HAS STATED ITS DECISION TO STOP CONDUCTING FURTHER COMBAT OPERATIONS IF THE UNITED STATES HALTS ITS MILITARY AID TO THE RULING REGIME.</p><p>IN THESE CONDITIONS, GERASIMOV STRESSED, THE CONTINUATION OF ARMS SUPPLIES TO THE SALVADORAN ARMY IN FACT PLAYS INTO THE HANDS OF THOSE WHO BLATANTLY VIOLATE HUMAN RIGHTS AND DOES NOT PROMOTE THE STRENGTHENING OF THE POSITIONS OF THOSE WHO CHAMPION DIALOGUE AND NATIONAL RECONCILIATION IN EL SALVADOR. "ALL OF THAT MAY BECOME A SERIOUS OBSTACLE IN THE WAY TOWARD A PEACEFUL SETTLEMENT IN THAT COUNTRY AND CENTRAL AMERICA IN GENERAL", HE SAID.</p></body></html>