<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0388"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0388"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0388</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0388 (BBN)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 27 AUG 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] 1. ON SUNDAY 20 AUGUST, EIGHT FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] DISABLED WAR COMRADES OCCUPIED THE [SAN SALVADOR METROPOLITAN] CATHEDRAL, WHERE THEY REMAIN STILL TO PROTEST THE VIOLATIONS BY THE ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] GOVERNMENT OF INTERNATIONAL LAW AS WELL AS NON-COMPLIANCE TO THE COMMITMENTS MADE WHEN THE RELEASE AND EXCHANGE OF COLONEL [OMAR NAPOLEON] AVALOS WAS NEGOTIATED IN PANAMA [IN 1987].</p><p>2. THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND GREETS THE DISABLED COMRADES AND CONGRATULATES THEM ON DEMANDING THAT THEY BE ALLOWED TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY AND OBTAIN ADEQUATE MEDICAL ATTENTION. THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND ALSO CALLS ON THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TO OFFER SOLIDARITY AND SUPPORT FOR THE JUST DEMANDS OF THE WAR DISABLED. WE RECOGNIZE AND ENCOURAGE THE HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE THAT MSGR ARTURO RIVERA Y DAMAS IS GIVING IN FINDING A JUST SOLUTION TO THIS PROBLEM DESPITE THE GOVERNMENT HINDERING HIS WORK AS A MEDIATOR IN SOLVING THE CONFLICT.</p><p>3. ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS, THE ARMED FORCES HAS ASSAULTED FMLN HOSPITALS, CAPTURED, TORTURED, AND MURDERED MEDICAL STAFF AND PATIENTS. ALSO, THEY HAVE CAPTURED, TORTURED, AND MURDERED DISABLED PERSONS IN VARIOUS CIRCUMSTANCES. THIS BEHAVIOR IS IN SHARP CONTRAST WITH THE FMLN'S STRICT RESPECT FOR THE HOSPITALS, MEDICAL STAFF, AS WELL AS THE ARMED FORCES' DISABLED AND WOUNDED PERSONNEL, ALTHOUGH THEY ARE VULNERABLE TARGETS OF OUR ACTIONS. THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND REITERATES THIS POLICY OF PRINCIPLES AND DEMANDS THE SAME BEHAVIOR FROM THE ARMED FORCES.</p><p>4. FOLLOWING THE OCCUPATION OF THE CATHEDRAL BY THE DISABLED, [PRESIDENT ALFREDO] CRISTIANI IS TRYING TO MAKE THE CASE AN OBJECT OF NEGOTIATION, DEMANDING CERTAIN ACTIONS OF THE FMLN. THIS ATTITUDE BY THE ARENA GOVERNMENT MIGHT MAKE THE PROBLEM MORE COMPLEX AND MAKE US REVERT TO CIRCUMSTANCES WE HAD ALREADY SURPASSED. THE DEPARTURE FROM THE COUNTRY OF THE DISABLED IS A RIGHT THAT THE GOVERNMENT SHOULD RESPECT, AND THIS CANNOT BE CONSIDERED AN ISSUE THAT CAN BE USED FOR NEGOTIATIONS OR BLACKMAIL.</p><p>WE ARE SURE THAT THIS JUST DEMAND WHICH HAS LED THE DISABLED COMRADES TO STAY AT THE CATHEDRAL UNTIL THEY AND THEIR COMRADES CAN LEAVE THE COUNTRY WILL BE SUPPORTED BY ALL OF OUR PEOPLE, WHILE INTERNATIONAL SOLIDARITY WILL LEAVE IT CLEARLY ESTABLISHED THAT CRISTIANI, ARENA, AND THE ARMED FORCES ARE ACTING IN AN UNJUST AND INCORRECT MANNER. [SIGNED] FMLN GENERAL COMMAND, 26 AUGUST 1989.</p></body></html>