<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0882"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0882"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0882</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0882 (GTE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 27 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION. PAY CLOSE ATTENTION. ATTENTION. PAY CLOSE ATTENTION. AS WE HAVE ALREADY REPORTED, U.S. OFFICIALS, IMPORTANT PERSONS, AND POLITICIANS IN THE UNITED STATES HAVE ISSUED STATEMENTS AFFIRMING THAT THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES ARE DIRECTLY LINKED TO THE CASE OF THE MURDERED JESUITS. THE TESTIMONY GIVEN BY THE LADY WHO WITNESSED THE CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY CRIME HAS CAUSED POLITICAL UPHEAVAL THAT IS ALSO BEING FELT IN THE CORRIDORS OF THE U.S. CONGRESS, THE WHITE HOUSE, AND THE PENTAGON.</p><p>EVEN ELLIOTT ABRAMS, FORMER ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS, HAS STATED ON THE FACE THE NATION TELEVISION PROGRAM ON 27 NOVEMBER, THAT THE MURDER OF THE SIX JESUITS, A WOMAN, AND HER DAUGHTER WAS AN ACTION BY THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES AND NOT THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT]. ABRAMS, A FORMER REAGAN ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL, STATED: BASED ON 10 YEARS EXPERIENCE ON THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT, I PRESUME THAT THE DEATH OF THE PRIESTS WAS NOT THE WORK OF LEFTIST GUERRILLAS, BUT AN ACTION BY FORCES OF THE CRISTIANI ADMINISTRATION. WE DO NOT HAVE A RECORD OF GUERRILLAS TAKING THIS SORT OF ACTION, SAID ELLIOT ABRAMS. HE ADDED THAT, IN THE PAST, MANY MILITARY OFFICERS HAVE BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH THE SO-CALLED DEATH SQUADS AND THE RIGHTIST SECTOR IN EL SALVADOR. THESE WERE THE STATEMENTS BY ELLIOT ABRAMS. VOA HAS REPORTED THE STATEMENTS BY THE WOMAN WHO WITNESSED THE CRIME. AT THIS TIME IN THE UNITED STATES, THE SALVADORAN TOP MILITARY COMMAND, COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, AND PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI ARE BEING POINTED OUT AS THE PERSONS DIRECTLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS ABOMINABLE CRIME.</p><p>IN RELATION TO THIS, WE WANT TO DENOUNCE THE FOLLOWING TO THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES, AND THE INTERNATIONAL MEDIA. OVER THE PAST FEW HOURS, THE CRISTIANI ADMINISTRATION HAS TRIED TO DIVERT THE ATTENTION OF THE UNITED STATES THAT IS PRESENTLY CENTERED ON THE CASE OF THE MURDERED JESUITS AND THE INVOLVEMENT OF THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT IN THIS CRIME. WE DENOUNCE THE ARREST OF U.S. CITIZEN JENNIFER CAZOLO AS PART OF A SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES PLAN TO ATTEMPT TO DIVERT THE ATTENTION OF INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC OPINION FROM THE JESUITS' CASE. WE ALSO DENOUNCE THE ARREST OF JENNIFER CAZOLO AS A REPRESSIVE ACT. ALSO, THE ARMED FORCES IS TRYING TO LINK HUMANITARIAN AID FOR EL SALVADOR, HUMAN RIGHTS, AND U.S.-BASED ORGANIZATIONS TO THE FMLN. IT IS TRYING TO LINK THESE ORGANIZATIONS AND THESE PERSONS TO THE FMLN.</p><p>THE FMLN COMPLETELY DENIES THAT IT HAS ANY LINK WITH U.S. CITIZEN JENNIFER CAZOLO. WE DENOUNCE THIS ACCUSATION AS A CLUMSY SET UP BY THE ARMED FORCES COMMAND, WHICH IS TRYING -- WE REPEAT -- TRYING TO REPRESS THESE HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS AND FOREIGNERS. THIS IS A SET UP BY THE ARMED FORCES TO REPRESS FOREIGN CITIZENS AND -- WE REPEAT -- IT IS A SMOKE SCREEN TO DIVERT U.S. ATTENTION FROM THE CASE THAT IS PRESENTLY ON THE TABLE. IT IS A SET UP TO NOT ATTEND THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY'S DEMAND FOR JUSTICE IN THE CASE OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS.</p><p>IF ELLIOT ABRAMS, FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS, WHO KNOWS SO MUCH ABOUT EL SALVADOR, SAYS THAT IT WAS NOT THE FMLN AND THAT THE CRIME WAS COMMITTED BY MILITARY UNITS AND PERSONS LINKED TO THE CRISTIANI ADMINISTRATION, HIS STATEMENTS WILL HAVE STRONG REPERCUSSIONS IN THE UNITED STATES. THE ARMED FORCES COMMAND AND THE CRISTIANI ADMINISTRATION ARE TRYING TO DO ALL THEY CAN TO THROW A SMOKESCREEN HERE AND THERE TO TRY TO DIVERT THE ATTENTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY AND, ESPECIALLY, THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>IN CONCLUSION, WE REAFIRM: WE DENY THE ARMED FORCES' ACCUSATIONS AGAINST U.S. CITIZEN JENNIFER CAZOLO. WE STATE THAT THE ACCUSATION IS A CLUMSY SET UP TO HIDE AND NOT RESPOND TO THE QUESTION EVERYONE IS ASKING -- WHERE ARE THE MURDERERS OF THE JESUITS? BEHIND THE CLUMSY SET UP WITH REGARD TO THE U.S. CITIZEN, WE ALSO SEE THAT THEY INTEND TO CONTINUE TO REPRESS HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS AND DIFFERENT SECTORS THAT HAVE EXPRESSED SOLIDARITY WITH EL SALVADOR. IN SHORT, ALL THIS SET UP ATTEMPTS TO DO IS THROW A HUGE SMOKESCREEN TO REPRESS THESE ORGANIZATIONS AND FOREIGNERS.</p></body></html>