<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1300"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1300"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="QUITO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1300</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1300 (BOEING)</p><p>QUITO, 21 MAY 90 (RADIO QUITO) -- [REPORT] [ALVARO GOMEZ] [TEXT] ALL MEDIA IN GUAYAQUIL AND MANY CORRESPONDENTS WHO HAVE COME TO THE PORT OF GUAYAQUIL TO COVER THE FOURTH ALFARO LIVES DAMMIT [AVC] NATIONAL CONFERENCE ARE STILL UNAWARE OF WHERE THE MEETING IS BEING HELD. THE SURRENDERING OF WEAPONS IN THE HANDS OF THIS GROUP WILL BE DISCUSSED AT THIS MEETING. THE FOUR-DAY MEETING BEGAN ON 18 MAY AT THE GUAYAS ELECTORAL TRIBUNAL. HOWEVER, THE MEETING WAS CONTINUED LATER AT AN UNDISCLOSED LOCATION IN GUAYAQUIL. DURING THEIR SESSIONS, IN ADDITION TO MAKING A DECISION ON THE SURRENDERING OF WEAPONS, AVC LEADERS WILL ALSO ASSESS THE AGREEMENT THEY SIGNED A YEAR AGO WITH THE PRESIDENT RODRIGO BORJA GOVERNMENT. THE ACCORD MADE IT POSSIBLE FOR THEM TO CEASE THE ARMED STRUGGLE IN EXCHANGE FOR A GOVERNMENT DIALOGUE WITH SOCIAL SECTORS IN THE COUNTRY. PRIOR TO THE BEGINNING OF THE FOURTH AVC NATIONAL CONFERENCE, AVC LEADER SANTIAGO DILLMAN REPORTED ON 18 MAY THAT THE FINAL DECISION ON THE SURRENDERING OF WEAPONS WAS A LOGICAL STEP -- AFTER TAKING INTO CONSIDERATION THAT THE ARMED STRUGGLE IN ECUADOR AND IN THE REST OF LATIN AMERICA IS NO LONGER THE PROPER COURSE. THEREFORE, HE ANNOUNCED, THIS ALFARIST MEETING WILL ALSO ANALYZE THE DECISION TO ORGANIZE A NEW POLITICAL PARTY OR TO ALLOW AVC LEADERS TO JOIN AN ALREADY EXISTING GROUP RECOGNIZED BY THE SUPREME ELECTORAL TRIBUNAL.</p><p>THESE ARE SOME OF THE POINTS ON THE AGENDA OF THE AVC MEETING, WHICH IS EXPECTED TO CONCLUDE ON 21 OR 22 MAY WITH A HISTORICAL RESOLUTION. HOWEVER, AVC LEADERS -- AMONG THEM SANTIAGO DILLMAN, MARCO TROYA, PEDRO MONCADA, AND JANETH SOSA -- HAVE PREFERRED NOT TO DISCLOSE THE SITE OF THE MEETING, WHICH HAS FRUSTRATED THE WORK OF JOURNALISTS. THE AVC LEADERS PLAN TO DISCUSS THE POSSIBILITY OF DELIVERING WEAPONS IN THE HANDS OF AVC MEMBERS TO A SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL DELEGATION IN A CEREMONY SIMILAR TO ONE RECENTLY HELD BY THE 19-APRIL MOVEMENT IN COLOMBIA, WHICH IN THE PAST HAS STAGED SEVERAL WELL-KNOWN MILITARY ACTIONS, INCLUDING THE KIDNAPPING OF BUSINESSMAN NAIM ISAIAS WITH THE HELP OF THE AVC.</p><p>THE AVC HAS SAID IT WANTS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE COUNTRY'S INSTITUTIONAL LIFE. IN ORDER TO DO THIS, IT WILL PLEDGE TO SURRENDER ITS WEAPONS -- THE SYMBOL OF ITS REBELLION -- WHICH IT WILL CONTINUE WITH OR WITHOUT WEAPONS, AVC LEADERS HAVE SAID. THE AVC LEADERS CONTINUE MEETING AT AN UNKNOWN LOCATION IN GUAYAQUIL AND EXPECT TO REACH AN AGREEMENT SOON ON LAYING DOWN THEIR WEAPONS, WHICH WOULD THEN BE DESTROYED IMMEDIATELY.</p></body></html>