<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:dbp="http://dbpedia.org/resource/" id="DEV-MUC3-0416"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0416"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0416</title></head><body vocab="http://schema.org/"><p>DEV-MUC3-0416 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 2 SEP 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING "CAPOS," THOSE "EXTRADITABLE" TO THE UNITED STATES, "ARE IN COLOMBIA; THEY HAVE NOT SOUGHT REFUGE ABROAD," <span typeof="Person" about="urn:muc3:entity/MIGUEL_GOMEZ_PADILLA"><span property="description">NATIONAL POLICE CHIEF GENERAL</span> <span property="name">MIGUEL GOMEZ PADILLA</span></span> TOLD THE PRESS TODAY.</p><p>"I AM SURE THAT THEY ARE IN COLOMBIAN TERRITORY. WE HAVE EVIDENCE TO THAT EFFECT," THE GENERAL SAID, ADDING THAT THE POLICE "HAVE AN ENTIRE UNIT READY TO BE TAKEN TO ANY POINT OF THE COUNTRY AT A MOMENT'S NOTICE" SHOULD ANY OF THE "CAPOS" BE FOUND.</p><p><span about="dbp:The_Extraditables" typeof="Organization">SOME OF <span property="alternateName">THE 12 "EXTRADITABLES"</span> -- <span rel="member"><span about="dbp:Jorge_Luis_Ochoa_Vásquez" typeof="Person" property="alternateName">JORGE LUIS</span>, <span about="dbp:Juan_David_Ochoa_Vásquez" typeof="Person" property="alternateName">JUAN DAVID</span>, <span about="dbp:Fabio_Ochoa_Vásquez" typeof="Person" property="alternateName">FABIO OCHOA</span>, <span about="dbp:Pablo_Escobar" typeof="Person" property="alternateName">PABLO ESCOBAR</span>, <span about="dbp:José_Gonzalo_Rodríguez_Gacha" typeof="Person" property="alternateName">GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA</span>, AND <span about="dbp:Gilberto_Rodríguez_Orejuela" typeof="Person" property="alternateName">GILBERTO RODRIGUEZ OREJUELA</span></span></span> -- HAVE BEEN POINTED OUT AS BEING <span about="dbp:The_Extraditables" property="description">THE KINGPINS OF THE CALI AND MEDELLIN NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING GROUPS</span>. THEY ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR EXPORTING 80 PERCENT OF THE COCAINE USED IN THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>ALTHOUGH HE ADMITTED THAT THE POLICE DO NOT HAVE "EXACT INFORMATION," GEN GOMEZ PADILLA POINTED OUT THAT MANY OF THE DOCUMENTS SEIZED IN THE LAST 2 WEEKS FROM THE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING ORGANIZATIONS-- INVENTORIES, ACCOUNTS, AND PROPERTY TITLES--"ALLOW US TO PROGRESS IN OUR CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING NETWORKS."</p><p>THE POLICE CHIEF ADDED THAT "THE POLICE ARE CAREFULLY EVALUATING THE DOCUMENTS SEIZED. NO POLITICAL OR PUBLIC FIGURE HAS BEEN FOUND TO BE INVOLVED WITH NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING AS A RESULT OF THESE PAPERS," HE SAID, BUT HE ADMITTED THAT BRIBERY IS ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT "ELEMENTS OF DESTABILIZATION" THAT THE MULTIMILLIONAIRE COCAINE MAFIAS USE.</p><p><span about="urn:muc3:entity/MIGUEL_GOMEZ_PADILLA" property="alternateName">GEN GOMEZ PADILLA</span> ADMITTED THAT THE POLICE DEPARTMENT HAS ALSO BEEN THE VICTIM OF BRIBERY CASES. "THANK GOD THERE ARE ONLY A FEW CASES, JUST FOUR OR FIVE," BUT THESE HAVE BEEN DETECTED IN TIME AND THOSE FOUND HAVE BEEN PUNISHED.</p><p>HE ALSO SAID THAT "WE HAVE HAD SOME EXEMPLARY MEN WHO HAVE GIVEN THEIR LIVES FOR THEIR PROFESSIONAL WORK."</p><p>IN THE LAST 3 YEARS, 1,300 POLICEMEN HAVE BEEN KILLED WHILE WORKING ON CASES RELATED TO NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING, <span about="urn:muc3:entity/MIGUEL_GOMEZ_PADILLA" property="alternateName">GOMEZ PADILLA</span> REPORTED. HE ALSO ADMITTED HE HIMSELF HAS RECEIVED DEATH THREATS.</p><p><span>MIGUEL GOMEZ PADILLA</span> STRESSED BEFORE THE FOREIGN PRESS THAT "COLOMBIA IS A SOVEREIGN NATION THAT HAS A VERY QUALIFIED AND PROFESSIONAL ARMED FORCES," AND THAT IN ORDER TO FIGHT NARCOTICS TERRORISM "WE DO NOT NEED FOREIGN FORCES."</p><p>WITH THIS REMARK, <span about="urn:muc3:entity/MIGUEL_GOMEZ_PADILLA" property="alternateName">GEN GOMEZ</span> AGAIN REJECTED THE POSSIBILITY THAT THE UNITED STATES MIGHT SEND TROOPS TO FIGHT THE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING GROUPS IN COLOMBIAN TERRITORY.</p><p>"THE FACT WE NEED EQUIPMENT AND TECHNOLOGICAL SUPPORT IS SOMETHING ELSE," THE POLICE CHIEF SAID, ADDING THAT "WE WELCOME ANY AMOUNT OF MONEY."</p><p><span>GOMEZ PADILLA</span> POINTED OUT THAT "AS NEVER BEFORE, THE ARMY, THE SECRET AGENTS, AND THE POLICE ARE TRULY COMITTED TO THE STRUGGLE AND HAVE ASSIGNED 80,000 UNITS TO FIGHT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY AGAINST NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING."</p><p>AS OF 18 AUGUST, WHEN THE GOVERNMENT LAUNCHED ITS MOST RECENT OFFENSIVE AGAINST NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING AND ADOPTED MEASURES THAT INCLUDED EXTRADITON, THE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING OF COCAINE "HAS NEARLY STOPPED," <span>GOMEZ PADILLA</span> SAID.</p><p>THE GENERAL STATED THAT THE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS ARE SEEKING NEW MARKETING ROUTES AND NEW BORDER AREAS TO INSTALL THE COCAINE REFINING LABORATORIES.</p><p>HE ADDED THE COLOMBIAN TOPOGRAPHY -- MOUNTAINOUS AND WITH VERY DENSE JUNGLES -- CONCEALS THE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS AND THEIR INSTALLATIONS, "BUT SOONER OR LATER WE ARE GOING TO FIND THEM; THEY CANNOT HIDE FOREVER."</p></body></html>