<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1023"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1023"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1023</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1023 (TRW)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 22 DEC 89 (PRENSA LIBRE) -- [TEXT] THREE MEMBERS OF THE INTERNATIONAL PEACE BRIGADES [BRIGADAS DE PAZ INTERNACIONALES] ASSIGNED TO GUATEMALA WERE ATTACKED YESTERDAY BY ALLEGED CRIMINALS WHO STABBED THEM NEAR THE THEIR BRIGADE HEADQUARTERS ON MARISCAL STREET IN THIS CAPITAL.</p><p>ACCORDING TO AUTHORITIES FROM THE INTERNATIONAL PEACE BRIGADES, THE VICTIMS WERE TWO CANADIAN WOMEN AND AN AMERICAN MALE CITIZEN.</p><p>THE REPORT STATES THAT THE THREE MEMBERS WERE RETURNING TO THEIR HEADQUARTERS WHEN THEY WERE INTERCEPTED AND ATTACKED BY TWO YOUNG MEN WHO STABBED THEM. THE AGGRESSORS FIRST STABBED THE TWO WOMEN IN THE CHEST, CAUSING DEEP WOUNDS. THE AMERICAN MAN TRIED TO DEFEND THE TWO WOMEN BUT HE SUFFERED CUTS ON HIS HANDS AND WRISTS, AND AROUND HIS WAIST.</p><p>THE INTERNATIONAL PEACE BRIGADES IN GUATEMALA REPORT STATES:</p><p>WE CONSIDER THAT THE ATTACK ON THEIR MEMBERS REPRESENTS AN ACTION OF INTIMIDATION AGAINST THIS ORGANIZATION AND THE HUMANITARIAN TASK IT CARRIES OUT IN GUATEMALA. THE AGGRESSORS DID NOT ASK FOR MONEY OR TRY TO STEAL ANYTHING FROM THE THREE VICTIMS. DURING THE ATTACK THE WOMEN DROPPED THEIR PURSES AND THE ATTACKERS DID NOT TRY TO STEAL THEM.</p><p>WE CONSIDER THAT THIS IS ANOTHER ATTACK IN THE ESCALATION OF VIOLENCE TO INTIMIDATE THE INTERNATIONAL PEACE BRIGADES, WHOSE PERSONNEL HAVE BEEN RECEIVING DEATH THREATS SINCE MAY. TWO GRENADES WERE HURLED AT THE ORGANIZATION'S HEADQUARTERS IN AUGUST.</p><p>THE INTERNATIONAL PEACE BRIGADES ARE AN INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS THAT PROMOTES THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OF NON-VIOLENCE, SEEKING PEACE THROUGH NON-VIOLENT MEANS. THIS PEACE INVOLVES NEGOTIATION, DIALOGUE, AND OTHER NON-VIOLENT METHODS.</p><p>THE INTERNATIONAL PEACE BRIGADES DO NOT INTERFERE IN GUATEMALAN DOMESTIC AFFAIRS OR IN THE ACTIVITIES OF ANY GUATEMALAN ORGANIZATION. THEY ONLY GIVE HUMANITARIAN HELP AND MAINTAIN AN INDEPENDENT ATTITUDE.</p></body></html>