<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1228"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1228"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BUENOS AIRES"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1228</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1228 (BOEING)</p><p>BUENOS AIRES, 21 APR 90 (DYN) -- [TEXT] DEFENSE MINISTER HUMBERTO ROMERO SAID TODAY THAT ARGENTINA HAS "SUSPENDED AND FROZEN" THE "CONDOR" MISSILE PROJECT. HE ALSO DENIED INTERNATIONAL PRESS REPORTS THAT THE MISSILE WAS BEING BUILT IN SECRET WITH IRAQ FOR POTENTIAL USE AGAINST ISRAEL.</p><p>DURING A MEETING WITH REPORTERS THIS AFTERNOON, ROMERO SAID: "THE PROJECT WAS SUSPENDED BECAUSE OF A POLITICAL DECISION, AND ALSO BECAUSE WE DO NOT HAVE FUNDS TO FINANCE THIS TECHNICAL PROJECT."</p><p>THIS IS HOW THE MINISTER IMPLICITLY ALLUDED TO THE REPEATED PRESS REPORTS FROM EUROPE, THE UNITED STATES, AND THE MIDDLE EAST ABOUT ARGENTINE PARTICIPATION IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF ONE OF THE STAGES OF THE IRAQI MISSILE SYSTEM.</p><p>ALTHOUGH HE DID NOT SPECIFICALLY MENTION IRAQ, ISRAEL, OR THE REPORT ON THE MISSILE, ROMERO SAID: "WE WANT TO PUT THIS TO REST IN THE FACE OF PUBLICATIONS THAT APPEAR IN THE INTERNATIONAL PRESS EVERY SO OFTEN." HE ADDED: "WE ALWAYS SAID THE PROJECT NEVER REPRESENTED ANY RISK OR DANGER FOR ANYONE, BUT AT ANY RATE THE PROJECT WAS SUSPENDED, IT IS FROZEN."</p><p>THIS WEEK IRAQI PRESIDENT SADDAM HUSSEIN SAID HIS COUNTRY CAN WAGE A TOTAL WAR AGAINST ISRAEL THROUGH THE USE OF MEDIUM-RANGE STRATEGIC MISSILES THAT CAN REPORTEDLY CARRY CHEMICAL WEAPONS. HUSSEIN ALSO SAID ANY ISRAELI EFFORT TO BOMB THE IRAQI MISSILE MANAUFACTURING PLANTS WOULD BE FUTILE BECAUSE "OUR MISSILES ARE MADE IN PARTS IN DIFFERENT AREAS OF THE WORLD."</p><p>ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS OUR COUNTRY HAS BEEN MENTIONED AS THE MANUFACTURER, IN COOPERATION WITH EGYPT AND IRAQ, OF MEDIUM-RANGE -- ABOUT 800 KM -- BALLISTIC MISSILES. EACH TIME ARGENTINA HAS CATEGORICALLY DENIED THIS. THE ARGENTINE AIR FORCE SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOPED THE "CONDOR I" AND "CONDOR II" PROJECTS. IT HAS BEEN ASSURED THAT THESE ARE FOR PUTTING A DOMESTIC SATELLITE IN ORBIT.</p><p>THE LAST MISSILE TEST WAS MADE JULY L989 AT THE CHAMICAL AIRSPACE BASE, LA RIOJA PROVINCE, WHERE A STAGE OF THE "CONDOR" MISSILE TRAVELLED MORE THAT 160 KM.</p></body></html>