<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0213"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0213"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0213</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0213 (ADS)</p><p>LA PAZ, 26 MAY 89 (LA RED PANAMERICANA) -- [TEXT] INTERIOR MINISTER EDUARDO PEREZ BELTRAN HAS DISCARDED THE POSSIBILITY OF A NEW, QUOTE, TERRORIST OR GUERRILLA GROUP, UNQUOTE, OUTBREAK IN THE COUNTRY. HE MADE THIS STATEMENT REFERRING TO THE MURDER OF TWO U.S. MISSIONARIES LAST WEDNESDAY NIGHT.</p><p>TO REMIND THE PEOPLE OF THIS CASE, DURING THE EVENING OF 24 MAY TWO U.S. CITIZENS, WHO BELONGED TO A RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION, WERE MURDERED BY A SELF-STYLED ZARATE WILKA ARMED FORCES OF LIBERATION [FAL] GROUP IN DOWNTOWN LA PAZ.</p><p>THE INTERIOR MINISTER ADDED THAT THIS ALLEGED ORGANIZATION THAT CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE MURDER, HAS NO TIES WITH THE PERUVIAN SHINING PATH TERRORIST GROUP.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PEREZ BELTRAN] TO THIS MOMENT, AND DUE TO THE SERIOUSNESS OF THE CASE, I DO NOT DARE TO ADMIT THE EXISTANCE OF ANY RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THESE TWO TERRORIST GROUPS. IF THE SHINING PATH IS OPERATING IN BOLIVIA, IT SHOULD ANNOUNCE THAT IT IS IN FACT SHINING PATH THAT IS COMMITTING THESE CRIMES.</p><p>WE CAN SAY THE SAME THING ABOUT THE NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY IN THE 1960'S, WHEN IT DID NOT HIDE ITS IDENTITY. THIS WAS AN INTERNATIONAL GROUP. THEY ARRIVED IN BOLIVIA WITHOUT HIDING THEIR INTERNATIONAL IDENTITY, AND THERE ARE MANY BOLIVIANS WHO CAN TELL US ABOUT THE NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY.</p><p>NOW, IF THIS CRIME WAS COMMITTED BY THE SHINING PATH, THEN IT WAS COMMITTED BY THE SHINING PATH AND NOT BY THE ZARATE WILKA GROUP. I DO NOT WANT TO DISCARD THIS POSSIBILITY, HOWEVER, I DO NOT WANT TO ADMIT IT AS SOMETHING VERIFIED AND CONFIRMED. OUR OBLIGATION, AS MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH, IS TO RELEASE THE RESULTS OF SOMETHING OBVIOUS, FULLY VERIFIED AND CONFIRMED. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE INTERIOR MINISTER ADDED THAT THE EXISTENCE OF THE SELF-STYLED FAL-ZARATE WILKA GROUP AND OF SHINING PATH MEMBERS IN BOLIVIA IS DOUBTFUL, BECAUSE IN THE CRIMINAL CASES RECORDED IN COCHABAMBA AND IN ORURO RECENTLY, THE POLICE DISCOVERED THAT COMMON CRIMINALS, AND ESPECIALLY THOSE LINKED TO THE WORLD OF DRUG ADDITION AND DRUG TRAFFICKING WERE DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN THOSE CRIMES.</p><p>REGARDING THE MURDER OF THE TWO MISSIONARIES IN LA PAZ LAST WEDNESDAY, THE INTERIOR MINISTER STATED THAT NO ONE HAS BEEN DETAINED, BUT THAT THE INVESTIGATIONS BY THE INTELLIGENCE SERVICES CONTINUE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[PEREZ BELTRAN] NO. WE CANNOT SUPPOSE THE EXISTENCE OF A TERRORIST GROUP IN BOLIVIA.</p><p>[REPORTER] AND WHAT ABOUT THESE MURDER CASES?</p><p>[PEREZ BELTRAN] I DO NOT KNOW. MANY PEOPLE CAN BE HIDING BEHIND THIS ZARATE WILKA GROUP. WE DO NOT KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT THIS ZARATE WILKA GROUP. WE DO NOT KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT THEIR POLITICAL LEANINGS, OR WHAT PARTY IS BEHIND THIS GROUP. THIS COULD HAVE BEEN A COMMON CRIME, OR MAYBE NOT.</p><p>BUT WE CANNOT JUST GO OUT AND SAY: YES, THIS GROUP LAST NIGHT MACHINEGUNNED THESE PEOPLE, THAT THEY ESCAPED, ETC. THIS WOULD MEAN A VERY IRRESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR. THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH WANTS TO DEAL WITH THIS CASE AS SERIOUSLY AS POSSIBLE AND NOT CAUSE THE PEOPLE TO PANIC.</p><p>WE MUST DO SOMETHING FOR THE COUNTRY. WE SHOULD UNITE OUR FORCES, ALL COALITION PARTIES, THE RULING PARTY, THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH, THE ARMED FORCES, THE NATIONAL POLICE, AND ALL BOLIVIANS, TO DEFEND OUR DEMOCRACY. THIS WOULD REPRESENT A REAL BOLIVIAN STRUGGLE AGAINST THOSE WHO INTEND TO DISRUPT OUR PROCESS OF LIBERTY, TO FIGHT FOR THE FUTURE OF OUR CHILDREN AND OF THE FATHERLAND. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>