<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1065"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1065"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1065</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1065 (TRW)</p><p>BOGOTA, 23 JAN 90 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] AN UNUSUAL COMMUNIQUE SIGNED BY PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA WAS DELIVERED TO EL TIEMPO NEWSPAPER DIRECTOR HERNANDO SANTOS CASTILLO. IN THIS COMMUNIQUE, ESCOBAR DENIED THAT THE MEDELLIN CARTEL IS DIVIDED AND STRESSED THAT THOSE WHO TOLD ON GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA WERE CALI CARTEL MEMBERS. FOR SEVERAL MONTHS, ESCOBAR'S GROUP HAS BEEN ENGAGED IN A FIGHT TO THE DEATH WITH THE MEMBERS OF THE CALI CARTEL.</p><p>ESCOBAR'S COMMUNIQUE EVEN GIVES THE NAME OF THE PERSON WHO COLLECTED THE REWARD FROM THE AUTHORITIES, A REWARD THAT HAD BEEN ANNOUNCED ON TELEVISION AS A PRIZE FOR DENOUNCING EL MEJICANO [RODRIGUEZ GACHA'S ALIAS].</p><p>HERE IS MORE ON THIS COMMUNIQUE:</p><p>IN A NEW EXCHANGE OF COMMUNIQUES, A PRACTICE THAT HAS BECOME COMMON NOWADAYS, ESCOBAR DECIDED TO WRITE A LETTER TO SANTOS TO CLARIFY CERTAIN DOUBTS: FIRST, TO SAY THAT HIS FRIENDS AND COLLABORATORS HAVE NOT WITHDRAWN THEIR SUPPORT AS A RESULT OF A CAMPAIGN CARRIED OUT BY THE 4TH BRIDAGE IN ANTIOQUIA, AS REPORTED IN EL TIEMPO. ESCOBAR STRESSED THAT THE BEST PROOF THAT HIS FRIENDS HAVE NOT BETRAYED OR ABANDONED HIM IS THAT HE IS STILL FREE. SECOND, HE SAID THAT IF THE GOVERNMENT EVER DECIDES TO FIGHT FOR PEACE, IT WILL FIND A LONG, ENDLESS LIST OF EXTRADITABLES, DRUG TRAFFICKERS, HENCHMEN, AND PARAMILITARY GROUP MEMBERS WHO WANT TO ACCOMPANY THE GOVERNMENT IN THAT PROCESS. THIRD, HE ACCUSED JORGE VELAZQUEZ, A MEMBER OF THE CALI CARTEL WHOSE ALIAS IS "THE NAVIGATOR," OF DENOUNCING RODRIGUEZ GACHA AND COLLECTING THE REWARD. HE ALSO ACCUSED CALI CARTEL MEMBERS OF DENOUNCING JORGE LUIS OCHOA IN PALMIRA AND OF BEING RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DISAPPEARANCE AND MURDER OF ANTIOQUIA PEOPLE WHO VISITED VALLE DEL CAUCA DEPARTMENT. ESCOBAR ALSO CHARGED THAT CALI CARTEL MEMBERS PLACED 700 KG OF DYNAMITE IN HIS FAMILY'S BUILDING. FOURTH, HE NOTED THAT HIS STRUGGLE IS AGAINST THE CALI CARTEL NOT THE VALLE DEL CAUCA PEOPLE AND ADDED: I FEEL GREAT ADMIRATION AND PROFOUND RESPECT FOR VALLE PEOPLE BECAUSE MY WIFE, VICTORIA, WAS BORN IN THAT BEAUTIFUL LAND, HER ANCESTORS ALL LIVED THERE. CONCLUDING HE SAID THAT ALTHOUGH HE HAS NEVER ACCEPTED THE CALI CARTEL'S PEACE PROPOSAL, HE HAS NEVER REJECTED DIALOGUE AS AN ALTERNATIVE FOR SOLUTIONS.</p></body></html>