<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0085"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0085"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-02-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0085</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0085 (NOSC)</p><p>LIMA, 3 FEB 89 -- [TEXT] A SPECTACULAR OPERATION WAS CONDUCTED YESTERDAY NOON WHEN A 39-MAN POLICE PATROL OF THE SANTA LUCIA DETACHMENT, REINFORCED BY ANTI-NARCOTICS POLICE, SURROUNDED THE UCHIZA AIRPORT AND WAITED FOR THE ARRIVAL OF TWO COLOMBIAN LIGHT AIRPLANES THAT WERE SUPPOSEDLY CARRYING DRUGS. A TIP HAD BEEN RECEIVED BY THE POLICE.</p><p>THE LANDING STRIP WAS SUBJECTED TO CONTINUOUS SURVEILLANCE. A 60-MAN ARMED GROUP OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS APPEARED AT 1620. APPARENTLY, THIS GROUP WAS GOING TO PROTECT THE COLOMBIAN LIGHT AIRPLANES.</p><p>THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS ARRIVED ABOARD SEVERAL VEHICLES. THEY DID NOT KNOW THEY WERE BEING WATCHED BY THE POLICE, WHOM THEY OUTNUMBERED.</p><p>UNDER THESE CIRCUMSTANCES, AND IMPLEMENTING A MASTERLY PLAN, THE POLICE FORCES APPEARED AND A SPECTACULAR SHOOT-OUT ENSUED.</p><p>SURPRISED BY THE UNEXPECTED ATTACK, THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS RETURNED THE FIRE, WHICH LASTED FOR 1/2 AN HOUR.</p><p>AS A RESULT OF THE CLASH, TWO DRUG TRAFFICKERS WERE KILLED AND FOUR WERE INJURED AND TRANSPORTED TO THE CENTRAL HOSPITAL IN TINGO MARIA. MEANWHILE, 15 DRUG TRAFFICKERS WERE ARRESTED; THE REST FLED.</p><p>AFTER THE INITIAL INVESTIGATIONS, THE CAPTURED DRUG TRAFFICKERS WERE FULLY IDENTIFIED. THE FOLLOWING COLOMBIAN CITIZENS WERE INVOLVED: FLORIAN CARVAJAL TELLO, MARIO MONTES MURILLO, AND ROLAND ARAMAYO DIAZ. THE FOLLOWING PERUVIAN CITIZENS WERE INVOLVED: JAIME LEMOS VERA, GUILLERMO ARO MENDIETA, ARMANDO SANCHEZ FLORES, ROMULO ROJAS FARFAN, PERCY ROJAS RODRIGUEZ, RUAL MORETTI CORDOVA, WILLIAM GUAJAN LOSA, CARLOS ROSAS RODRIGUEZ, FERNANDO GARCES ALVARADO, RAUL BEATINO BARDALES, ALCIDES ANGULO DIAZ, AND LUIS RODRIGUEZ CASTILLO.</p><p>THE NAMES OF THE INJURED DRUG TRAFFICKERS ARE: JOSE HERNANDEZ VELA, CESAR VEGA VILCA, PEDRO ARROYO ELIAS, AND GRACIAN MARTINEZ SAVICH.</p><p>IN ADDITION, CIVIL GUARDSMEN FOUND NEAR THE UCHIZA LANDING STRIP A TOTAL OF 700 KG OF COCAINE PASTE READY FOR SHIPMENT.</p><p>TWO NISSAN PICK-UP TRUCKS, ONE TOYOTA PICK-UP TRUCK, SIX REVOLVERS, TWO PISTOLS, AND EIGHT SHOTGUNS OF VARIOUS BRANDS WERE ALSO SEIZED.</p></body></html>