<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0769"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0769"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="PARIS (FRANCE)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0769</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0769 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>PARIS (FRANCE), 16 NOV 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ASSASSINATION OF SIX MEMBERS OF HIS ORDER, INCLUDING IGNACIO ELLACURIA, RECTOR OF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY (UCA), "ARE THE SAME ONES WHO KILLED MSGR OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO, ARCHBISHOP OF SAN SALVADOR."</p><p>"I DO NOT WANT TO ACCUSE ANYONE, BUT IT IS OBVIOUS WHERE THE FACTS ARE POINTING," JOSE MARIA TOJEIRA [JESUIT PROVINCIAL SUPERVISOR] STATED AT A NEWS CONFERENCE HELD THIS AFTERNOON IN THE UCA CHAPEL, ONLY A FEW METERS FROM WHERE THE JESUIT PRIESTS AND TWO DOMESTICS WERE KILLED THIS MORNING.</p><p>THE BODIES OF ELLACURIA AND HIS JESUIT COMPANIONS IGNACIO MARTIN BARO, SEGUNDO MONTES, JUAN RAMON MORENO, ARMANDO LOPEZ, AND JOAQUIN LOPEZ, AS WELL AS DOMESTIC ELBA RAMOS AND HER 15-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER, WERE RIDDLED WITH BULLETS, WHILE SOME ALSO HAD THEIR SKILLS CRUSHED.</p><p>THE DEATH OF THE PRIESTS, FIVE OF THEM SPANIARDS, WHO WERE ALWAYS IN FAVOR OF A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION TO THE CRISIS, HAS INCREASED THE FEAR AND DESPERATION FELT BY THE SALVADORANS SINCE THE PAST WEEKEND, WHEN VIOLENT FIGHTING BROKE OUT BETWEEN THE GUERRILLAS AND SOLDIERS IN THE NORTHERN PART OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>THE PRIESTS WERE KILLED BY SOME 30 MEN WEARING OLIVE DRAB UNIFORMS WHO BROKE INTO THE PLACE, ACCORDING TO WITNESSES WHO WERE THERE, TOJEIRA EXPLAINED.</p><p>THE PRIEST RECALLED THAT OVER THE WEEKEND THE GOVERNMENT RADIO NETWORK "LAUNCHED FIERCE ATTACKS AGAINST THE [WORD INDISTINCT], SAYING THAT A FEW PRIESTS HAD TO BE KILLED IN THIS COUNTRY OR THAT THEY HAD TO BE PLACED IN FRONT OF THE CATHEDRAL SO THAT THE PEOPLE COULD KILL THEM BY SPITTING AT THEM," TOJERA NOTED.</p><p>ALSO, HE ADDED THAT ON MONDAY ARMED FORCES MEMBERS RAIDED THE HOMES OF ELLACURIA AND COMPANIONS. "ON THAT OCCASION THEY WERE QUITE CORRECT, ACCORDING TO WHAT FATHER ELLACURIA TOLD ME," ADDED TOJEIRA, WHO WAS QUITE UPSET DURING THE NEWS CONFERENCE.</p><p>"APPARENTLY THE MEN SAID THEY HAD REPORTS THAT THERE WERE WEAPONS IN THE RESIDENCES. OF COURSE THEY FOUND NOTHING, AND FATHER ELLACURIA INVITED THEM TO RETURN ON TUESDAY AND GO THROUGH THE UCA CAMPUS, BUT THEY DID NOT DO SO."</p><p>ALSO, TOJEIRA CONFIRMED THAT ON WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON AND EVENING THERE WAS TIGHT SECURITY IN THE VICINITY OF THE UCA IN THE SOUTHERN PART OF THE CAPITAL.</p><p>"I DO NOT KNOW IF THE SOLDIERS LEFT THE PLACE LATER, BUT UP UNTIL 2200 ON WEDNESDAY, HOURS BEFORE THE HORRIBLE MASSACRE, THE SOLDIERS WERE THERE," TOJEIRA ADDED.</p><p>"THESE ARE THE FACTS. THEREFORE, WE SHARE THE OPINION OF ARCHBISHOP ARTURO RIVERA -- THAT THE ONES RESPONSIBLE ARE THE SAME ONES WHO ASSASSINATED MSGR ROMERO," HE ADDED.</p></body></html>