<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0914"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0914"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0914</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0914 (GTE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 1 DEC 89 (RADIO CADENA CUSCATLAN) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [SALVADORAN NATIONAL COMMUNICATION SECRETARIAT] [TEXT] FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] GUERRILLAS FIRED A SAM-7 MISSILE ON 29 NOVEMBER FROM ZACATECOLUCA AND ON 30 NOVEMBER FIRED A SIMILAR MISSILE, ALSO FROM ZACATECOLUCA. BOTH MISSED THEIR TARGETS.</p><p>THE AIR FORCES OFFICERS INVOLVED REPORTED THAT IN BOTH CASES THE SAM-7 MISSILES WERE DETECTED BY OBSERVER PLANES, WHICH IN TURN WARNED THE TWO SALVADORAN AIR FORCE A-37 PLANES THAT THE MISSILES WERE HEADED TOWARD THEM. THE TWO PLANES WERE FLYING PATROL MISSIONS IN THE ZACATECOLUCA AREA. BOTH SAM-7 MISSILES FAILED TO STRIKE THEIR TARGETS THANKS TO THE PROFESSIONALISM OF THE PILOTS, WHO MANEUVERED TO PREVENT THE FMLN MISSILES FROM HITTING THEM.</p><p>THE FMLN CONTINUES TO RECEIVE SOVIET ARMS SUPPLIES THROUGH CUBA AND NICARAGUA, AN ACTION WHICH HAS ALREADY BEEN OFFICIALLY DENOUNCED TO THE ENTIRE WORLD AND WHICH THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE FULLY REPUDIATE. THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT HAS SUPPLIED THE FMLN TERRORISTS WITH THIS TYPE OF SOPHISTICATED WEAPONRY OF SOVIET MANUFACTURE, WHICH CONFIRMS THAT THE FMLN, APART FROM HAVING ITS GENERAL COMMAND INSIDE NICARAGUAN TERRITORY, HAS THE MILITARY SUPPORT AND GUIDANCE OF THE SANDINIST REGIME. OFFICIAL SOURCES BELIEVE THAT THE SAM-7 MISSILES FIRED BY THE FMLN AGAINST THE AIR FORCE PLANES COULD BE AMONG THE WEAPONS THAT WERE ONBOARD THE OTHER SMALL PLANE THAT WAS SET ON FIRE BY THE TERRORISTS AFTER THEY HAD UNLOADED IT.</p><p>AS SOON AS THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT LEARNED OF THE SAM-7 SHIPMENTS TO THE FMLN, THEY REPORTED IT TO THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY. IN RESPONSE TO THIS REPORT, THE SOVIET GOVERNMENT, SHOWING GREAT ANNOYANCE, ORDERED A FREEZE ON ALL ARMS SHIPMENTS TO THE ORTEGA GOVERNMENT, WHICH, FOLLOWING ORDERS FROM FIDEL CASTRO, SUPPLIES MILITARY EQUIPMENT TO THE FMLN TERRORISTS. IT HAS ALSO BEEN REPORTED THAT AN INVESTIGATION IS UNDER WAY ON THE PARTICIPATION OF MERCENARIES FROM DIFFERENT COUNTRIES WHO ARE FIGHTING ALONGSIDE THE FMLN, CAUSING THE GENOCIDE OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p></body></html>