<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0694"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0694"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0694</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0694 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 NOV 89 -- [TEXT] SAN SALVADOR DOMESTIC SERVICE IN SPANISH AT 2005 GMT ON 12 NOVEMBER BEGINS COVERAGE OF A LIVE SPEECH BY SALVADORAN DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL RAFAEL HUMBERTO LARIOS ON THE ONGOING REBEL OFFENSIVE IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>LARIOS BEGINS BY ASSURING THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE THAT THE ARMED FORCES WILL SPARE NO EFFORT OR SACRIFICE IN DEFENDING THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. HE ADDS: "WE ARE DEEPLY THANKFUL FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT THE PEOPLE HAVE GIVEN THE ARMED FORCES. WE TAKE IT AS A CHALLENGE, AND YOU CAN REST ASSURED, SALVADORAN PEOPLE, THAT JUST AS I, A SOLDIER OF THIS FATHERLAND AND OF OUR ARMED FORCES, HAVE, ALL OF THOSE BEHIND ME HAVE THE SAME RESOLVE TO STRUGGLE AND THE SAME SPIRIT TO FACE -- TODAY, TOMORROW, AND ALWAYS -- THE TERRORIST CHALLENGE TO WHICH, TODAY AND IN THE COMING HOURS, WE WILL RESPOND BY GIVING THEM A LESSON IN PROFESSIONALISM.</p><p>"MY ATTITUDE IS PRECISELY ONE OF DEFENDING AND GUARANTEEING THOSE RIGHTS, THAT SPIRIT, AND THAT RESOLVE, AND OF DEFENDING AND GUARANTEEING THE SUPREME POSTULATES CONTAINED IN THE CONSTITUTION."</p><p>REGARDING THE ONGOING FIGHTING IN SAN SALVADOR, LARIOS SAYS:</p><p>"THE MAIN PROBLEMS NOW ARE IN THE NORTHERN SECTOR OF THE THE CAPITAL CITY. WE BELIEVE THAT WE WILL HAVE FULL CONTROL OF THE SITUATION WITHIN THE NEXT FEW HOURS. MEANWHILE, SALVADORAN PEOPLE, HAVE FAITH, HOPE, AND CONFIDENCE IN YOUR ARMED FORCES, IN GOD AND IN THE DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS OF OUR PEOPLE. THANK YOU AND GOOD AFTERNOON."</p><p>LARIOS CONCLUDES HIS ADDRESS AT 2013 GMT.</p><p>FURTHER AS AVAILABLE</p></body></html>