<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:dbp="http://dbpedia.org/resource/" id="DEV-MUC3-0398"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0398"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0398</title></head><body vocab="http://schema.org/"><p>DEV-MUC3-0398 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 29 AUG 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] THE COLOMBIAN DEFENSE MINISTRY IN BOGOTA CONFIRMED TODAY THAT AT LEAST THREE-FOURTHS OF THE 10,797 PEOPLE ARRESTED AFTER SENATOR LUIS CARLOS GALAN'S MURDER ON 18 AUGUST HAVE BEEN RELEASED.</p><p>THE RELEASES TOOK PLACE AS THE PREVENTIVE ARREST DEADLINES ESTABLISHED IN THE STATE OF SIEGE DECREES ISSUED ON 25 AUGUST BY PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO'S LIBERAL GOVERNMENT BEGAN TO EXPIRE.</p><p>COLONEL EDUARDO AREVALO, PRESS DIRECTOR FOR THE DEFENSE MINISTRY, TOLD AFP THAT THE AUTHORITIES COULD ONLY DETAIN SUSPECTS FOR 7 WORKING DAYS.</p><p>IT IS QUITE DIFFERENT WHEN ARRESTS ARE MADE ON SPECIFIC DRUG TRAFFICKING CHARGES, HE EXPLAINED.</p><p>"THERE ARE NO EXACT FIGURES REGARDING THE PERSONS RELEASED, BUT I CAN ASSURE YOU THAT AT LEAST THREE-FOURTHS OF THE DETAINEES ARE INVOLVED," COL AREVALO SAID.</p><p>THAT PROPORTION OF THE ALMOST 10,797 DETENTIONS MADE DURING THE OPERATIONS CARRIED OUT THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY AGAINST COMMON CRIMINALS AND PRESUMED ACCOMPLICES OF THE DRUG TRAFFICKING MAFIAS, LEADS TO THE ASSUMPTION THAT APPROXIMATELY 3,500 PEOPLE REMAIN IN CUSTODY AT THE JAILS, POLICE INSPECTION OFFICES, AND OTHER BRANCHES.</p><p>THE LEGAL SITUATION OF THESE INDIVIDUALS WILL BE ESTABLISHED AS THEIR TERMS EXPIRE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW, AREVALO SAID.</p><p>AREVALO EXPLAINED TO AFP THAT THERE HAVE BEEN A FEW DIFFICULTIES REGARDING THOSE WHO HAVE BEEN DETAINED AND ARRESTED, ADDING THAT THE DIFFICULTIES STEM FROM THE WORK STOPPAGE IN THE JUDICIAL BRANCH IN PROTEST OVER THE ASSASSINATION OF JUSTICE CARLOS VALENCIA IN BOGOTA.</p><p>HE SAID THAT AMONG THE DETAINEES ARE THREE INDIVIDUALS WHO COULD BE EXTRADITED TO THE UNITED STATES.</p><p><span about="dbp:The_Extraditables" rel="member">ONE OF THE EXTRADITABLES IS <span typeof="Person" about="urn:muc3:entity/EDUARDO_MARTINEZ_ROMERO" property="name">EDUARDO MARTINEZ ROMERO</span></span>, CAPTURED WHILE HE WAS VACATIONING ON HIS FARM IN TOLU, A VILLAGE IN THE NORTHWESTERN PROVINCE OF SUCRE ON THE CARIBBEAN COAST, APPROXIMATELY 750 KM FROM BOGOTA, AND HIS TRANSFER TO THE UNITED STATES COULD COME AT ANY MOMENT.</p><p>THE PROCEDURES FOR MARTINEZ ROMERO'S EXTRADITION WERE CARRIED OUT UNEVENTFULLY AFTER THE U.S. EMBASSY MADE THE REQUEST. HOWEVER, IT HAS BEEN REPORTED THAT HIS EXTRADITION MAY BE POSTPONED FOR A FEW DAYS BECAUSE THE SUPREME COURT SUSPENDED THE DEADLINES FOR THE ELECTION OF JUSTICES AT 27 HIGHER COURTS.</p><p>THE SUPREME COURT'S CONSTITUTIONAL CHAMBER AND THE ATTORNEY GENERAL HAVE 10 WORKING DAYS TO STATE THEIR POSITIONS REGARDING THE LEGALITY OF THE EXECUTIVE DECREES, WITHOUT WHICH THE GOVERNMENT WOULD HAVE TO ABSTAIN FROM AUTHORIZING FUTURE EXTRADITIONS.</p><p>"WE MUST NOT ACT HASTILY BECAUSE WE DO NOT WANT TO MAKE ERRORS. SOME OF THE EXTRADITABLES MAY BE INNOCENT," COMMUNICATIONS MINISTER CARLOS LEMUS TOLD AFP.</p></body></html>