<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0880"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0880"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0880</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0880 (GTE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THERE IS NO LONGER ROOM FOR THE IDEA OF DIALOGUE WITHOUT NEGOTIATION. NOW WE MUST NEGOTIATE IN EARNEST. THAT DEMAND HAS BEEN MADE BY SEVERAL GOVERNMENTS AND INTERNATIONAL FORUMS, AND EVEN BY SOME INFLUENTIAL SECTORS IN THE UNITED STATES. YET CRISTIANI HAS OPPOSED THIS UNIVERSAL CURRENT. CRISTIANI'S TACTICAL, PROPAGANDISTIC, AND DELAYING MOVES AROUND THE NEGOTIATIONS TABLE WILL NO LONGER HAVE A CHANCE TO SUCCEED. ON THE OTHER HAND, IT WILL NOW BE AN INDISPENSABLE CONDITION THAT DIALOGUE AND NEGOTIATION BE EXPANDED AND THAT THE REAL DECISIONMAKERS BE THE ONES WHO SIT AT THE NEGOTIATING TABLE.</p><p>FINALLY, FOLLOWING THE OFFENSIVE LAUNCHED BY THE FMLN, THE ANALYSTS, ESPECIALLY IN THE UNITED STATES, HAVE ADMITTED THAT THERE IS A NEED TO CARRY OUT AN IN-DEPTH STUDY OF THE VALUE OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT'S POLICY TOWARD EL SALVADOR. THE DEBATE ON THE CONDITIONING, AND EVEN THE TOTAL SUSPENSION, OF MILITARY AID TO THE SALVADORAN ARMY IS VERY INTENSE, AND IT HAS ALREADY SHAKEN THE FOUNDATIONS OF BIPARTISANSHIP REGARDING U.S. SUPPORT FOR THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT. YOU WILL RECALL THAT THE DEBATE HAS NOT CONTINUED BECAUSE THE U.S. CONGRESS HAS DECLARED A RECESS; HOWEVER, IT WILL SOON BECOME THE CENTER OF THE U.S. CONGRESS' DEBATES.</p><p>IN SUMMARY, WE COULD SAY THAT THE ENEMY HAS LOST GROUND AND LEGITIMACY, AND THE BASIS FOR ITS SUPPORT, THE U.S. AID, IS BEING SERIOUSLY THREATENED. IN ADDITION, THE ARMY HAS BEEN REDUCED TO THE STRATEGIC DEFENSE OF AN IMPORTANT CENTER, THE CAPITAL CITY. THEREFORE, IT IS ONLY LOGICAL TO SAY THAT TODAY WE SAW A VERY WORRIED, EVEN DESPERATE, CRISTIANI. CRISTIANI'S SPEECH ON THE RADIO AND TELEVISION NETWORK SHOWS AN ATTEMPT TO RETOUCH THE PICTURE. CRISTIANI TRIED TO LOWER THE LEVEL OF THE WATER THAT HAS REACHED HIS NECK BY DIVERTING THE WORLD'S ATTENTION FROM THE BOMBINGS AND THE DEATHS OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS TO NICARAGUA. IN THIS DESPERATE EFFORT, ALL THAT CRISTIANI HAS DONE IS TO TAKE THE WAR TO OTHER AND MORE DANGEROUS LEVELS. HE IS ATTEMPTING TO REGIONALIZE THE WAR, AND THIS WILL UNDOUBTEDLY ISOLATE HIM EVEN MORE FROM THE WORLD.</p><p>THE OUTCOME OF THIS SITUATION DEPENDS ON ALL THESE FACTORS THAT CAN ACCELERATE THE DECOMPOSITION OF FASCISM IN THE COUNTRY. HOWEVER, THEY DEPEND MOSTLY ON THE VIGOR AND STRENGTH THAT ALL THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE PLACE ON THIS ONGOING AND IRREVERSIBLE STRUGGLE.</p></body></html>