<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1112"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1112"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1112</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1112 (UNISYS)</p><p>LA PAZ, 9 FEB 90 (PRESENCIA) -- [ARTICLE] [GREGORIO LANZA] [TEXT] THE SANTA CRUZ PREPARATORY MEETING WAS HELD UNDER STRICT SECURITY MEASURES AND ITS CONCLUSIONS HAVE BEEN KEPT UNDER STRICT SECRECY. THIS VEIL OF SECRECY SEEMED TO HAVE BEEN LIFTED WHEN THE MORNING NEWSPAPER HOY PUBLISHED A LONG AGENDA UNDER THE HEADING "TOTAL WAR AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING." THE GOVERNMENT, HOWEVER, HAS NEITHER CONFIRMED NOR REJECTED THE AUTHENTICITY OF THE REPORT. (SILENCE IS GOLDEN). AT A MEETING AT THE INTERIOR MINISTER'S OFFICE ON 31 JANUARY, THE MINISTER TOLD COCA PRODUCERS THAT HOY DID NOT REPORT THE PRELIMINARY AGENDA... AND THAT THE PRESIDENT'S CRITERION OF "COCA IN RETURN FOR DEVELOPMENT" HAS PREVAILED. IF THIS IS THE CASE, AND IF THERE IS CONSENSUS ON THIS POSITION, WHY HASN'T THE COUNTRY BEEN INFORMED?</p><p>THE SITUATION HAS BEEN FURTHER COMPLICATED BY THE REMARKS BY PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA, WHO SAID THAT "WHEN EVERYTHING SEEMED TO HAVE BEEN AGREED UPON" ONE OF THE COUNTRIES INTRODUCED CHANGES THAT HAVE "CHANGED THE STRUCTURAL FEATURES OF THE ISSUE." WHAT IS THIS NEW CONCEPT? IS IT ABOUT SOVEREIGNTY OR INDEPENDENCE?</p><p>THE PROGOVERNMENT PROPAGANDA HAS MONOTONOUSLY REITERATED OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS THAT TO GOVERN MEANS TO INFORM. FINE. WE AGREE THAT TO INFORM IS PART OF THE ART OF GOVERNING. TO INFORM, HOWEVER, ALSO MEANS TO TELL THE TRUTH, ESPECIALLY IF IT DEALS WITH AN ISSUE THAT IS FUNDAMENTAL TO THE FUTURE OF BOLIVIANS. THE GOVERNMENT SHOULD BE CONSISTENT, AT LEAST WITH THIS PRINCIPLE.</p><p>PRESIDENT JAIME PAZ ZAMORA HAS REPEATEDLY PROPOSED THE REPLACEMENT OF COCA PRODUCTION THROUGH DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS. YET THE REMARKS BY U.S. EMBASSY DEPUTY CHIEF OF MISSION MARILYN MCAFEE HAVE DEALT AN ANTICIPATED BLOW THAT HAS CAUSED SOME OFFICIALS TO HESITATE. "THERE IS $15 MILLION FOR REPLACEMENT," SHE SAID. (THERE IS $60 MILLION FOR REPRESSION). BARELY RECUPERATED FROM HIS SURPRISE, THE FOREIGN MINISTER SAID THAT THE U.S. HELP IS A "BILATERAL ISSUE AND, CONSEQUENTLY, IT WILL NOT BE DIRECTLY ADDRESSED" AT THE CARTAGENA SUMMIT. THE INTERIOR MINISTER, WHO HAS MORE EXPERIENCE IN THIS TYPE OF SITUATION, DID NOT ATTACH MUCH IMPORTANCE TO MCAFEE'S STATEMENT AND STRESSED THAT "MORE EXACT FIGURES WILL BE MENTIONED AT THE CARTAGENA SUMMIT." WHO IS TELLING THE TRUTH? WILL THE CARTAGENA SUMMIT ADDRESS THE ECONOMIC AID?</p><p>AFTER THIS PECULIAR SITUATION, THE UNITED STATES SEEMS TO HAVE CHOSEN INTERDICTION AND ERADICATION -- REPRESSION -- TO FIGHT DRUG TRAFFICKING. THE STRATEGY OF "WAR AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING TERRORISTS" HAS PREVAILED. THIS STRATEGY LENDS ITSELF TO INTERVENTIONIST MILITARY POLICIES, SIMILAR TO THE PRESENCE OF U.S. MARINES IN BOLIVIA IN THE PAST, OR, IN THE FUTURE, THE CREATION OF A MULTINATIONAL MILITARY FORCE THAT WOULD JEOPARDIZE REGIONAL POLITICAL AND MILITARY STABILITY.</p><p>WHEN THE TRAFFICKING OF COCAINE WAS CARRIED OUT AS A COVERT OPERATION (1984-87) INVOLVING THE CIA AND THE U.S. ARMY -- FOR THE PURPOSE OF PROVIDING MILITARY SUPPLIES TO THE CONTRAS -- COCAINE TRAFFICKING WAS NOT A CRIME. THE LINKS BETWEEN NORIEGA AND DRUG TRAFFICKING WERE A MATTER OF SECONDARY IMPORTANCE AS LONG AS HE PROVIDED INFORMATION AND SUPPORT FOR THEIR WAR AGAINST NICARAGUA. BUT NOW THE UNITED STATES DOES NOT MIND INVADING PANAMA OR TURNING COLOMBIA INTO AN INFERNO TO CAPTURE NORIEGA OR SOME OF THE MAJOR COLOMBIAN TRAFFICKERS ON THIS CRUSADE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING. THAT IS THE U.S. GOVERNMENT'S DOUBLE-FACED MORALITY.</p><p>ANOTHER SCANDAL HIT U.S. SOCIETY LAST WEEK. MARION BARRY, THE MAYOR OF WASHINGTON, THE CAPITAL OF THE EMPIRE AND ALSO THE CAPITAL OF CRIME, WAS CAUGHT IN AN FBI TRAP. HE WAS FILMED CONSUMING COCAINE. HIS FOLLOWERS CLAIM THAT IT IS A WHITE CONSPIRACY TO PREVENT A BLACK MAYOR FROM RUNNING FOR ANOTHER TERM.</p><p>BUT THE INTERESTING POINT FOR US IS THE CONTROVERSY BETWEEN BENNETT, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT STRATEGIST FOR THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING (THE BENNETT PLAN), AND WASHINGTON POLICE CHIEF FULWOOD. WHILE BENNETT HAS QUESTIONED THE EFFICIENCY OF THE WASHINGTON POLICE, CLAIMING THAT THIS AREA RECEIVES THE LARGEST AMOUNT OF FEDERAL SUPPORT FOR THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING, FULWOOD HAS SAID THAT BENNETT IS WASTING TIME "TALKING WITHOUT DOING ABSOLUTELY ANYTHING" (NEWSWEEK, 29 JANUARY). THE NEWSWEEK JOURNALIST SAID THAT EVEN BEFORE THE BARRY SCANDAL IT WAS POSSIBLE TO SEE THAT THE BENNETT PLAN HAD BECOME "ONLY A DIRTY BATTLE OF WORDS." BENNETT'S STRATEGY FOR THE PREVENTION AND REPRESSION OF DRUG ABUSE IN THE UNITED STATES HAS BEEN A TOTAL FAILURE. BENNETT THEREFORE BELIEVES THAT THE BEST WAY TO COVER HIS FAILURE IS TO TURN TOWARD LATIN AMERICA TO RELIEVE THE FURY OF HIS IMPOTENCE, ORDERING WARSHIPS AND PLANES TO CONTROL MARITIME AND AIR TRAFFIC. AS USUAL, THOSE OF US WHO LIVE IN THE "BACKYARD" HAVE TO PAY FOR THE MISTAKES OF U.S. POLICY.</p><p>THIS IS NOT A STORY OF SUSPENSE. THE SUSPENSE HAS BEEN CREATED BY THE ATTITUDE OF THE GOVERNMENT. THE COUNTRY NEEDS TO KNOW THE CONCLUSIONS OF THE SANTA CRUZ SUMMIT. OTHERWISE WE WILL HAVE TO ACCEPT THAT A SMOKE SCREEN HAS BEEN DEPLOYED OVER THE CARTAGENA SUMMIT.</p></body></html>