<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1030"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1030"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1030</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1030 (TRW)</p><p>LIMA, 25 DEC 89 (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH PRESIDENT GARCIA BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [GARCIA] WHEN I APPLY ALL MY ARGUMENTATIVE AND RETHORICAL ENERGY TO THE SUBJECT OF PANAMA, AND I DO SO WITH ABSOLUTE SINCERITY, NOT SIMPLY TO TAKE A STANCE, BUT BECAUSE AS A LATIN AMERICAN I FEEL GREATLY OFFENDED IN A WAY THAT YOU COULD NOT UNDERSTAND. I FEEL TERRIBLY OFFENDED. IF I MAKE DEMANDS AND IF I CONDEMN, I KNOW THAT NOBODY WILL QUICKLY FOLLOW ME DOWN THIS ROAD OF FIRMNESS AND CONDEMNATION. BUT THIS IS A SECONDARY ASPECT. I WISH I WERE FOLLOWED, BUT IF AM NOT, THIS DOES NOT DETRACT FROM THE JUSTICE OF WHAT I AM DOING. ONE TRIES TO DO WHAT IS INTRINSICALLY GOOD, NOT SIMPLY WHAT ONE CAN NECESSARILY WIN.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[GARCIA] PARDON ME. IT WOULD BE WORSE IF YOU DIDN'T DO IT. IT WOULD BE LESS EFFECTIVE, THOUGH IT WOULD BE SOMEWHAT EFFECTIVE. DON'T BE UNJUST. IT WOULD BE EVEN LESS EFFECTIVE IF WE ALL REMAINED SILENT AND SAID: YES, UNCLE SAM, YOU ARE THE MASTER AND WE MUST OBEY. WE ARE THE UNCLE TOM IN LATIN AMERICA.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[GARCIA] LOOK, I DON'T EXPECT....[CHANGES THOUGHT] WE DON'T HAVE TO MIX THEM [PASSAGE INDISTINCT]. WE CONTINUE OUR NEGOTIATION WITH THE IMF, AND THAT TO ME STILL SEEMS VERY POSITIVE. MAY IT NOT TURN OUT AS THE ILLUSION I HAD THAT RELATIONS WERE CHANGING AT THE POLTICAL LEVEL. FIRST, I WOULD NOT ALLOW A HARDENING OF PERU ATTITUDE TOWARD THE UNITED STATES. THERE IS A HARDENING WHEN ONE SLAPS SOMEONE ELSE IN THE FACE. IN THIS CASE WE HAVE A CONCRETE SUBJECT OF DISCUSSION. THERE IS A GREAT ISSUE TO DISCUSS BETWEEN LATIN AMERICA AND THE UNITED STATES. YOU DON'T HAVE THE RIGHT TO INVADE. WHO CALLED YOU? ENDARA HIMSELF HAD TO SAY -- BECAUSE HE KNOWS WHAT THE PANAMANIAN PEOPLE THINKING, THOUGH A PERCENTAGE OF THEM ARE INDIFFERENT -- THAT HE DID NOT CALL THEM. DO YOU KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS? PRESIDENT ENDARA SAYS THAT HE DIDN'T CALL FOR THE INVASION. THIS SHOULD BE AUTOMATICALLY UNDERSTOOD. FOR SOME REASON HE SAID IT. SO I WOULD NOT CALL IT A HARDENING. I BEG YOU TO UNDERSTAND THE EXACT SHADE OF THE TERM. WE ARE ENERGIC IN OPPOSING A CONCRETE FACT, BUT WHAT DO THE PEOPLE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE, THE PEOPLE OF CALIFORNIA, THE PEOPLE OF GEORGIA, THE PEOPLE OF JEFFERSON, OF WHITMAN, OF LINCLON -- THAT GREAT DEFENDER OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND RACIAL EQUALITY -- WHAT HAVE THEY HAVE TO DO WITH THAT ACT? WE HAVE TO RESPECT THE GREATNESS OF THE UNITED STATES. FROM LATIN AMERICA, THE UNITED STATES IS SEEN IN VARIOUS WAYS. FOR THE TIME BEING, I SEE IT AS THE ROME OF THE MODERN WORLD. I HAVE ALWAYS THOUGHT THAT THE LATIN AMERICANS MUST BE UNDERSTOOD INSIDE THE UNITED STATES. THE LATIN AMERICAN EXPERIENCE HAS TO SEEN INSIDE THE UNITED STATES. THEN A SOUND RELATIONSHINP WILL EMERGE BETWEEN THE TWO CONTINENTS. BECAUSE THE UNITED STATES IS THE ROME OF THE MODERN WORLD -- FOR THE CAPACITY OF ITS ATOMIC LEGIONS; FOR THEIR HAVING CONCENTRATED SCIENCE AND PHILOSOPHY, ALTHOUGH BOTH WERE BROUGHT OVER FROM EUROPE AS THE ROMANS BROUGHT THEM FROM GREECE; FOR THEIR HAVING GENERATED AN EXTRAORDINARY TECHNOLOGY, AND FOR THEIR BEING A DEMOCRACY -- THE UNITED STATES MUST BE RESPECTED. WE WILL HAVE TO DISTINGUISH ALL THAT FROM A PARTICULAR ACT BY THE U.S. ADMINISTRATION. THIS IS WHY WE SAY AMERICANS REFERRING TO THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES, AND SAY YANKEE TO DEFINE SOME ACTS BY THE U.S. ADMINISTRATION. SO I DON'T BELIEVE, SIR, THAT THERE IS A HARDENING, AND I ALSO BELIEVE THAT THEY UNDERSTAND IT VERY WELL. I BELIEVE THEY UNDERSTAND ME WHEN I TELL THEM THAT I CANNOT SIT AT THE TABLE WITH THEM WHEN THEY ARE KILLING PANAMANIAN PEOPLE. LET THE MINISTERS, THE POLICE CHIEFS, THE PROSECUTORS, THE ATTORNEY GENERALS SIT AT A TABLE. THAT IS GOOD. BUT THE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE NATION? DO YOU UNDERSTAND WHAT I MEAN? I THINK THIS IS A GOOD OPPORTUNITY TO EXPLAIN IT. I DO NOT BELIEVE IT WOULD BE A BAD THING FOR MR MANTILLA TO SIT WITH MR BENNETT OR WITH THE JUSTICE MINISTER OF COLOMBIA. I DO NOT BELIEVE THIS WOULD BE BAD. THIS IS THE PROOF THAT WE WANT TO CONTINUE THE ANTIDRUG PLAN. BUT THOSE WHO PERSONIFY THE NATION CANNOT MEET. WE CANNOT DO SO UNDER THE PRESENT CIRCUMSTANCES. SO THIS IS NOT HARDENING. AS FOR THE IMF, I BELIEVE THAT IT IS AN ABSOLUTELY DIFFERENT MATTER. THESE MATTERS ARE WELL DIFFERENTIATED. I AM NOT HERE AS A DEMAGOGUE, AS SOME RIGHT WING MEDIA ASSERT. THOSE PEOPLE ARE FIGHTENED WHEN I DRAW A LOT OF PEOPLE DESPITE MY POLTICAL DECLINE. I AM NOT BEING A DEMAGOGUE, AND I AM NOT HERE BECAUSE THE BEST WAY TO WIN VOTES IS TO INDULGE IN ANTI-AMERICAN POLITICS FROM HERE UNTIL 28 JULY 1990. I WILL NOT LAPSE INTO THAT IRRESPONSIBILITY. HERE WE HAVE A CONCRETE FACT THAT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH OUR CULTURAL, COMMERCIAL, POLITICAL, AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS WITH ORGANIZATIONS WHERE THE UNITED STATES MAY OR MAY NOT HAVE INFLUENCE. I SEPARATE THINGS VERY WELL. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>