<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0120"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0120"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-05-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0120</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0120 (BELLCORE)</p><p>LIMA, 19 MAY 88 (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [TEXT] TODAY THE NATIONAL CENTER SECURITY ZONE COMMAND DENIED THE KILLING OF PEASANTS IN CAYARA, AYACUCHO. THE COMMAND ISSUED THE FOLLOWING OFFICIAL COMMUNIQUE:</p><p>1. AT 2300 ON 23 [AS HEARD] MAY, NEAR CAYARA, VICTOR FAJARDO PROVINCE, AYACUCHO DEPARTMENT, A GROUP OF APPROXIMATELY 100 SUBVERSIVES AMBUSHED A TWO-VEHICLE ARMY PATROL ON A RELIEF OPERATION BETWEEN THE TOWNS OF SAN PEDRO DE GUAILLAS AND HUANCAPI.</p><p>2. THE FOLLOWING MEMBERS OF THE PERUVIAN ARMY DIED AS A RESULT OF THIS CRIMINAL ATTACK: CAPTAIN JOSE URBULU SIMO, SECOND SERGEANT ANGEL VARGAS SAMARA, AND CORPORALS FAVIAN ROLDAN ORTIZ AND CARLOS ESPINOZA DE LA CRUZ. FIFTEEN ARMY PERSONNEL WERE ALSO WOUNDED DURING THE ATTACK, FOUR OF THEM SERIOUSLY. THE CAPTAIN AND OTHER PERSONNEL KILLED DURING THE OPERATION WERE BURIED ON 16 MAY IN LIMA AND HUARAS, RESPECTIVELY.</p><p>THE ARMY PERSONNEL KILLED SIX UNIDENTIFIED SUBVERSIVES WHILE REPELLING THE ATTACK. THE EVIDENCE INDICATES THAT AN UNSPECIFIED NUMBER OF SUBVERSIVES WERE ALSO WOUNDED.</p><p>3. PERUVIAN ARMY REINFORCEMENT PATROLS PURSUED THE SUBVERSIVE COLUMN, WHICH TOOK FLIGHT IN THE DIRECTION OF CAYARA. THE PATROL FOUND THE TOWN COMPLETELY EMPTY AND ABANDONED WITH THE EXCEPTION OF SOME CHILDREN AND OLD PEOPLE WHO REPORTED THAT FOUR DEAD BODIES WERE LEFT IN THE TOWN'S CHURCH.</p><p>4. DURING THE SEARCH OPERATION AROUND CAYARA, THE PATROLS CLASHED WITH SUBVERSIVES AND KILLED AN UNSPECIFIED NUMBER.</p><p>5. ON 16 MAY THE POLITICAL-MILITARY COMMAND REPORTED THE ATTACK TO THE PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE IN AYACUCHO AND ASKED THE COURT TO INTERVENE. THE PERUVIAN ARMY HAS ALSO BEGUN AN INQUIRY INTO THE MATTER.</p><p>6. THE FALSE REPORT BY LOCAL AUTHORITIES OF THE KILLING OF A LARGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE FROM CAYARA IS COMPLETELY GROUNDLESS. THE REPORT OF AN ALLEGED BOMBARDMENT IS ALSO FALSE. ALL THIS HAS THE SOLE PURPOSE OF HINDERING THE ACTION OF THE FORCES OF ORDER WHO ARE TRYING TO CAPTURE THE CRIMINAL SUBVERSIVES WHO AMBUSHED THE ARMY PATROL.</p><p>7. THE SEARCH OPERATION CONTINUES AND THE RESULTS WILL BE REPORTED AS SOON AS THEY BECOME KNOWN.</p><p>LIMA, 18 MAY 1988</p><p>[SIGNED] PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICE, NATIONAL CENTER SECURITY ZONE COMMAND</p></body></html>