<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0551"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0551"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0551</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0551 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 6 OCT 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] FOUR MEN, WHO HAD 250 KG OF DYNAMITE WITH THEM, WERE ARRESTED TODAY BY THE BOGOTA POLICE WHO SAID THEY HAD DISMANTLED A BAND OF INDIVIDUALS WHO WERE SOWING TERROR IN THIS CITY.</p><p>IN ORDER NOT TO HINDER THE INVESTIGATIONS, THE POLICE DID NOT DISCLOSE THE NAMES OF THE INDIVIDUALS WHO WERE CAPTURED DURING THE INTELLIGENCE OPERATION IN SOUTHWESTERN BOGOTA.</p><p>A POLICE SPOKESMAN REPORTED THAT THE FOUR MEN WERE ARRESTED, FOLLOWING THE 5 OCTOBER ARREST OF A MAN WHO WAS CARRYING 15 KG OF DYNAMITE IN A TAXI.</p><p>SHORTLY BEFORE THAT, ANOTHER TERRORIST WAS NEARLY LYNCHED BY SOME PEOPLE WHO CAPTURED HIM IN NORTHERN BOGOTA, AFTER HE PLACED AN EXPLOSIVE DEVICE IN A PRINTSHOP.</p><p>A POLICE PATROL WENT TO THE SITE AND PREVENTED THE PRIVATE CITIZENS AND BUSINESSMEN AFFECTED BY THE BOMBS FROM SERIOUSLY HARMING THE MAN WHO WAS, NONETHELESS, SEVERELY BEATEN.</p><p>THE BOGOTA POLICE SAID THAT THE ARREST OF THESE SIX TERRORISTS IN THE LAST 24 HOURS AIDED IN UNCOVERING A PLAN TO DESTROY AN ELECTRICAL GENERATING CENTER.</p><p>A POLICE SPOKESMAN REPORTED THAT THE INDIVIDUALS WERE ARRESTED, THANKS TO THE COOPERATION OF THE PEOPLE. HE EMPHASIZED THAT THE QUICK REACTION BY A GROUP OF BUSINESSMEN LED TO THE ARREST OF ONE OF THE TERRORISTS.</p><p>THE SECOND TERRORIST WAS ARRESTED BY THE POLICE AFTER A TAXI DRIVER REFUSED TO PROVIDE SERVICE AND REPORTED HIM AS A SUSPECT.</p><p>WHEN THE SUSPECT WAS INTERROGATED, HE DISCLOSED INFORMATION THAT ALLOWED THE POLICE TO LOCATE A HOUSE IN SOUTHERN BOGOTA WHERE FOUR MEN WERE HIDING 250 KG OF DYNAMITE.</p><p>THE TERRORISM AFFECTING SEVERAL COLOMBIAN CITIES IS THE RESPONSE FROM DRUG TRAFFICKERS TO COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO WHO DECLARED WAR ON THEM IN AUGUST.</p></body></html>