<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0814"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0814"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0814</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0814 (PRC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 19 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [INTERVIEW WITH SALVADOR SAMAYOA, MEMBER OF THE POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC COMMISSION OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT-DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTIONARY FRONT, FMLN-FDR, BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [REPORTER] COMRADE SALVADOR SAMAYOA, WE HAVE HEARD REPORTS ON STATEMENTS BY THE U.S. AMBASSADOR IN SAN SALVADOR, WILLIAM WALKER, WHO SAID THAT DESPITE THE BOMBINGS HIS GOVERNMENT, THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION, WILL CONTINUE GIVING MILITARY AID AND SUPPORT TO THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT. HOWEVER, IT SEEMS THE SITUATION HAS CHANGED FOLLOWING THE ASSASSINATION OF THE JESUITS. AT THIS MOMENT, HOW DOES THE UNITED STATES PERCEIVE THE NEW SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR?</p><p>[SAMAYOA] AT THE LEVEL OF THE U.S. PEOPLE, THERE IS A TOTAL REPUDIATION OF THE FASCIST CRIMINAL GOVERNMENT AND OF THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES BECAUSE OF THE BOMBINGS -- WHICH HAVE BECOME A TRUE GENOCIDE -- IN VARIOUS DENSELY POPULATED CITIES AND NEIGHBORHOODS IN EL SALVADOR, AS WELL AS BECAUSE OF THE ASSASSINATIONS PERPETRATED BY THE SALVADORAN ARMY AGAINST THE JESUIT PRIESTS AT THE CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY [UCA]. THERE HAVE BEEN VERY RADICAL DEMONSTRATIONS EXPRESSING MUCH INDIGNATION BY VARIOUS U.S. SOCIAL SECTORS. MOREOVER, IN SOME OF THOSE DEMONSTRATIONS, THE POLICE BARRICADES WERE BROKEN. IMPORTANT U.S. POLITICAL PERSONALITIES SUCH AS JESSE JACKSON, ONE OF THE MOST PRESTIGIOUS LEADERS IN THE UNITED STATES, PARTICIPATED IN THE DEMONSTRATIONS. THERE HAVE ALSO BEEN DEMONSTRATIONS IN BOSTON, CHICAGO, NEW YORK, SAN FRANCISCO, AND LOS ANGELES. IN AT LEAST 20 CITIES IN THE UNITED STATES PEOPLE HAVE EXPRESSED ALL THEIR REPUDIATION AND INDIGNATION OVER THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT AND THE U.S. POLICY IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF THE UCA PRIESTS, A LARGE NUMBER OF IMPORTANT U.S. SENATORS AND REPRESENTATIVES ARE SAYING THAT U.S. MILITARY AID TO THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES AND GOVERNMENT SHOULD BE CUT AND SUSPENDED. SENATOR KENNEDY IN PARTICULAR MADE A VERY STRONG STATEMENT, SAYING THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES' ATTITUDE SIMPLY EXPRESSES THE FAILURE OF 10 YEARS OF U.S. POLICY -- WHICH HAS BEEN SPENT FEEDING, TRAINING, ARMING, AND FINANCING AN ARMED FORCE THAT CARRIES OUT ASSASSINATIONS. IN ADDITION TO SENATOR KENNEDY, THERE ARE MANY U.S. SENATORS AND CONGRESSMEN WHO ARE REQUESTING THE TOTAL SUSPENSION OF MILITARY AID TO EL SALVADOR. AT THIS TIME, THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT AND ARMED FORCES HAVE THE HIGHEST LEVEL OF REPUDIATION IN THE UNITED STATES IN THE PAST 10 YEARS. HOWEVER, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT, [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE STATE DEPARTMENT, AND THE WHITE HOUSE CONTINUE SUPPORTING THE [SALVADORAN] CRIMINAL REGIME AND GIVING IT FURTHER EMERGENCY AID.</p><p>[REPORTER] COMRADE, YESTERDAY WE LEARNED ABOUT ARTICLES PUBLISHED IN THE MAIN U.S. NEWSPAPERS THE NEW YORK TIMES AND THE WASHINGTON POST, WHICH STRONGLY QUESTION THE GOVERNMENT, SPECIFICALLY PRESIDENT CRISTIANI, THE CHIEF OF THE FASCIST DICTATORSHIP. WHAT IS THE SITUATION OF THE CRISTIANI SPEECH AND HIS ALLEGED LEGITIMACY, NOT ONLY IN THE UNITED STATES BUT ALSO AT THE LEVEL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY?</p><p>[SAMAYOA] THE ALLEGED LEGITIMACY OF CRISTIANI COLLAPSED. IN THE UNITED STATES, THEY SAID CRISTIANI WAS [WORDS INDISTINCT] HAD GOOD INTENTIONS, BUT THE RIGHT-WING [WORDS INDISTINCT] AND THE DEATH SQUADS DID NOT LET HIM WORK. THE SPEECH FAILED BECAUSE IT IS NOW CLEAR THAT AS COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF THE ARMED FORCES, CRISTIANI IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE GENOCIDE IN SAN SALVADOR AND OTHER DEPARTMENTS IN THE COUNTRY [WORDS INDISTINCT]. THE MEDIA HAVE ALSO REPORTED THE ARREST OF U.S. RELIGIOUS MEN AND OF SWISS, FRENCH, SPANISH, AND JAPANESE CITIZENS. THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT IS A GOVERNMENT ACCUSING EVERYONE OF COOPERATING WITH THE GUERRILLAS, AND THIS HAS CAUSED A TOTAL LOSS OF THE GOVERNMENT'S PRESTIGE. EDITORIALS ON 18 NOVEMBER IN THE MAIN U.S. NEWSPAPERS [WORDS INDISTINCT] CRISTIANI IS NOT MORE THAN [WORDS INDISTINCT]. AT EMBASSIES AND CONSULATES IN MOST COUNTRIES IN WESTERN EUROPE -- IN ITALY, SPAIN, THE FRG, FRANCE, SWEDEN, DENMARK AND EVERYWHERE -- THERE HAVE BEEN DEMONSTRATIONS CALLED BY LABOR UNIONS, POLITICAL PARTIES, AND PEOPLE'S MOVEMENTS IN THOSE COUNTRIES TO EXPRESS REPUDIATION. IN LONDON, ONE OF THE MOST PRESTIGIOUS HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS, AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL, URGED EVERYONE TO STAGE DEMONSTRATIONS IN FRONT OF ALL SALVADORAN EMBASSIES AND CONSULATES. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>