<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0305"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0305"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN PEDRO SULA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0305</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0305 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>SAN PEDRO SULA, 20 JUL 89 (TIEMPO) -- [TEXT] TEGUCIGALPA -- THE PEOPLE'S ORGANIZATIONS COORDINATING COMMITTEE (CCOP) AND THE UNITED FEDERATION OF HONDURAN WORKERS (FUTH) CHARGED YESTERDAY THAT THERE IS A TERRORIST PLAN TO ELIMINATE EVERYONE WHO OPPOSES THE U.S. MILITARY OCCUPATION OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>IN A NEWS CONFERENCE, THE LEADERS OF THE ORGANIZATIONS SAID THAT THE DEATH THREATS AGAINST LABOR AND THE PEOPLE'S LEADERS ARE INCLUDED IN THIS PLAN, WHICH FORMS PART OF THE U.S. POLICY ON HONDURAS.</p><p>REFERRING TO THE RECENT ASSASSINATIONS IN SAN PEDRO SULA, CCOP COORDINATOR JUAN ALMENDARES BONILLA SAID THAT HONDURAS "IS AN OCCUPIED COUNTRY WHERE THERE IS A U.S.-SPONSORED POLICY OF TERROR THAT SEEKS TO ANNIHILATE ALL THE GROUPS THAT PROTEST THE VIOLATION OF NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY."</p><p>HE EXPLAINED THAT THERE ARE VARIOUS FORMS OF TERROR. FOR EXAMPLE, HE SAID ARMED GROUPS ARRIVE AT HOUSES AT NIGHT AND RAPE ENTIRE FAMILIES. "THESE POLICIES OF TERROR HAVE BEEN USED IN BRAZIL, CHILE, VIETNAM, EL SALVADOR, AND GUATEMALA, AMONG OTHER COUNTRIES," HE SAID.</p><p>THE FORMER UNIVERSITY RECTOR SAID THAT THIS POLICY OF TERROR, WHICH HAS RECENTLY BEEN INTENSIFIED, TRIES TO MAKE PEOPLE BELIEVE THAT THERE IS A SUBVERSIVE CELL THAT IS DESTABILIZING THE COUNTRY PRIOR TO THE HOLDING OF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTIAL SUMMIT IN TELA, ATLANTIDA DEPARTMENT.</p><p>THE PEOPLE'S LEADERS SAID THAT "THE TERRORISM OF THE HONDURAN DEMOCRATIC STATE IS ALSO SHOWN BY AN ELECTORAL PROCESS THAT IS EXTENSIVELY CONTROLLED BY THE AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND THE EXECUTION OF POOR HONDURANS BY REPRESSIVE FORCES THAT HAVE BEEN TRAINED BY U.S. EXPERTS."</p><p>THEY SAID THE TERRORISM IS ALSO DEMOSTRATED IN THE NONFULFILLMENT OF THE ESQUIPULAS II PEACE AGREEMENTS, BY A POLICY THAT CAPITULATES TO THE IMF AND THE WORLD BANK, THE MAINTENANCE OF EXTREME SECURITY, AND THE FACILITIES GIVEN TO THE THE CONTRAS AND THE U.S. ARMY.</p><p>AFTER MAKING THE PREVIOUS ANALYSIS, THE FUTH AND THE CCOP ASKED THE GOVERNMENT TO HALT STATE TERRORISM AND TO BRING TO JUSTICE THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE POLITICAL CRIMES AGAINST THE PEOPLE'S LEADERS. THEY ALSO DEMANDED THAT THE PEACE AGREEMENTS BE RESPECTED, THAT THE NATIONAL RECONCILIATION COMMISSION'S REPORT ON REPRESSION BE MADE KNOWN, AND THAT THE NICARAGUAN CONTRAS BE DEMOBILIZED.</p><p>THEY ALSO PROPOSED THAT THE STATE CARRY OUT A REAL POLICY OF DEMOCRATIZATION WITH THE PEOPLE'S PARTICIPATION IN THE FACE OF PRESSURE FROM THE IMF, THE WORLD BANK, AND THE U.S. EMBASSY.</p><p>THEY ALSO DEMANDED THAT THE GOVERNMENT ADOPT A PATRIOTIC POSITION SO THAT THE U.S. BASES AND THE CONTRAS WILL BE WITHDRAWN FROM HONDURAS BECAUSE THEY CONSTITUTE A THREAT TO PEACE IN CENTRAL AMERICA.</p><p>THE CCOP AND THE FUTH ALSO ANNOUNCED THAT THEY HAVE SCHEDULED "A GREAT MARCH FOR NATIONAL DIGNITY" THIS AFTERNOON TO MARK THE HEROIC DEEDS OF LEMPIRA, THE DEFENDER OF NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY AND DIGNITY.</p><p>THE MARCH WILL BEGIN AT 1600 AT THE COMAYAGUELA OBELISK AND END AT TEGUCIGALPA'S MAIN SQUARE.</p><p>THE DEMONSTRATION WILL ALSO DEMAND THE REJECTION OF THE IMF AND WORLD BANK'S PROPOSALS, THE EXPULSION OF THE NICARAGUAN CONTRAS AND RESPECT FOR THE ESQUIPULAS II AGREEMENTS.</p></body></html>