<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1215"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1215"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1215</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1215 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 6 APR 90 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] IT HAS BEEN REPORTED THAT ON 6 APRIL AT 0230, THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] GUERRILLAS ATTACKED POSITIONS THAT WERE BEING GUARDED BY UNITS OF THE LIGHTNING BATTALION OF MILITARY DETACHMENT NO. 5 IN LAS GUARAS BRIDGE, LOCATED ON THE HIGHWAY THAT RUNS FROM SAN MARTIN TO SUCHITOTO, AND IN SAN PEDRO PERULAPAN, CUSCATLAN DEPARTMENT. THE FMLN GUERRILLAS ATTACKED FOUR POSITIONS WITH RIFLE FIRE AND ROCKET LAUNCHERS.</p><p>AFTER 40 MINUTES OF ATTACKS, WE HAD TAKEN OVER THREE POSITIONS AND FORCED THE FOURTH ONE TO FLEE. IN THIS ATTACK, WE INFLICTED 13 CASUALTIES ON THE ENEMY. THE CASUALTIES WERE INFLICTED IN THE AREA OF SUCHITOTO, WHILE THE WAR MATERIEL WGS SEIZED IN SAN PEDRO PERULAPAN IN CUSCATLAN DEPARTMENT.</p><p>WE INFLICTED 13 CASUALTIES IN THE AREA OF SUCHITOTO, INCLUDING A SUB-SERGEANT AND A WOUNDED CORPORAL. IN THE AREA OF THE LAS GUARAS BRIDGE, WE SEIZED FIVE M-16 RIFLES, ONE M-79 ROCKET LAUNCHER, 8,200 CARTRIDGES, 38 GRENADES FOR M-79 ROCKET LAUNCHERS, 11 KNAPSACKS, AND OTHER WAR MATERIEL.</p><p>WE ALSO REPORT THAT COMRADE WILLIAM HEROICALLY FELL IN COMBAT, STRUGGLING TO TEAR DOWN THE FASCIST WALL AND URGING THE FATHERLAND TO UNITE FOR DEMOCRACY.</p></body></html>