<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1208"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1208"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1208</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1208 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 3 APR 90 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHAIRMAN OF THE ARMED FORCES JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF, BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [EXCERPTS] [CONTINUED] [PONCE] THEY ARE COMPLETELY OUT OF CONTEXT IN HISTORY. THEY HAD CLEARLY ANNOUNCED THAT THEY WOULD NOT USE CAR BOMBS FROM NOW ON, BUT THEY USED ONE YESTERDAY NEVERTHELESS. THIS ACTION IS CONDEMNABLE FROM EVERY VIEWPOINT BECAUSE THE MEMBERS, RATHER THE ALUMNI, OF CETIPOL [POLICE INSTRUCTION CENTER] WHO WERE VICTIMS OF THIS ATTACK WERE UNARMED. THEY WERE SIMPLY DOING SOME PHYSICAL EXERCISES. IT IS ALSO DEPLORABLE THAT A BAKER WAS KILLED AND THAT A 12-YEAR-OLD YOUTH GOING TO SCHOOL WAS INJURED.</p><p>WE BELIEVE THAT THESE EVENTS DO NOT CONTRIBUTE AT ALL TO THE CREATION OF THE APPROPRIATE ATMOSPHERE FOR SEEKING PEACE IN OUR COUNTRY. THIS AND MANY OTHER ACTS OF VIOLENCE WHICH HAVE RECENTLY OCCURRED CONTRADICT THE IMAGE THAT THE FMLN HAD PREVIOUSLY TRIED TO CREATE WITH ITS DECISION NOT TO CONTINUE SABOTAGING THE PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION AND COMMUNICATIONS SECTORS, AS WELL AS BUSINESSES. ALL THESE ACTIONS HAVE CONTINUED TO OCCUR. WE WANT TO BELIEVE THAT THESE ACTIONS HAVE BEEN CARRIED OUT BY TERRORISTS WHO ARE OUT OF THE FMLN LEADERS' CONTROL, BECAUSE, AS I SAID, THIS DOES NOT HELP AT ALL TO CREATE THE APPROPRIATE ATMOSPHERE IN WHICH TO SEEK PEACE IN OUR COUNTRY.</p><p>[REPORTER] COLONEL, REFERRING TO THE STATE OF SIEGE, WILL THE ARMED FORCES INSIST ON KEEPING IT OR NOT? THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY PRESIDENT COMMENTED ON THIS YESTERDAY.</p><p>[PONCE] THIS IS A POLITICAL DECISION ANYWAY, AND IT IS ADOPTED BY THE ASSEMBLY -- SOMETIMES UPON REQUEST FROM...</p><p>[REPORTER, INTERRUPTING] THE DEFENSE MINISTRY, YOU SAID.</p><p>[PONCE] WE, AS AN ARMED CORPS AND WITH THE INTENTION OF HELPING CREATE THE APPROPRIATE ATMOSPHERE FOR PEACE IN OUR COUNTRY, WILL MAKE NO REQUEST TO EXTEND THE STATE OF EMERGENCY AND [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>[REPORTER] DOES THIS MEAN THAT THE ARMED FORCES DECIDED THIS BECAUSE THE SITUATION OF VIOLENCE HAS DISAPPEARED?</p><p>[PONCE] TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THE FACT THAT CURRENT VIOLENT ACTIONS MIGHT COME FROM GROUPS OUTSIDE THE CONTROL OF FMLN LEADERS, WE BELIEVE THAT THE COUNTRY'S SITUATION IS NOT NORMAL ENOUGH TO SAY THAT THERE IS NO VIOLENCE. HOWEVER, AS A CONTRIBUTION TO THAT PROPITIOUS ATMOSPHERE FOR THE DIALOGUE, I BELIEVE THAT IT IS ADVISABLE TO LIFT IT.</p><p>[REPORTER] I HAVE TWO QUESTIONS: WHAT IS THE ARMED FORCES' POSITION REGARDING [WORDS INDISTINCT]?</p><p>[PONCE] AS FOR THE FIRST QUESTION, YOU ARE REFERRING TO STATEMENTS BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC. I BELIEVE THAT IN DUE TIME HE WILL HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO EXPLAIN THOSE STATEMENTS. I UNDERSTAND THAT THE NEWSMAN DISTORTED HIS WORDS, BUT THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF WILL HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE THE RESPECTIVE CLARIFICATION.</p><p>I WILL, HOWEVER, STATE THAT ACCORDING TO THE REPORTS THAT HAVE BEEN ISSUED BY THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF THE NATIONAL POLICE AS TO WHETHER AT ANY TIME COLONEL BENAVIDES HAS LEFT THE HANDS OF THE NATIONAL POLICE, HE CLEARLY SAID THAT AT NO TIME HAS BENAVIDES DONE THIS. HE IS UNDER THE ORDERS OF THE 4TH PENAL JUDGE, AND AT NO TIME HAS THE 4TH PENAL JUDGE AUTHORIZED COL. BENAVIDES TO LEAVE THE CONFINES OF THE JAIL.</p><p>THE PERSON WHO MADE THE ACCUSATIONS SHOULD PRESENT SOME EVIDENCE, A PHOTOGRAPH FOR EXAMPLE. OTHERWISE, THIS IS ALL MERE SPECULATION. THAT IS A VERY DELICATE CASE, AND SPECULATIONS CAST A NEGATIVE IMAGE ON THE ARMED FORCES AND THE COUNTRY ITSELF, AND EVEN ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE IN OUR COUNTRY.</p><p>CONCERNING WHAT COULD HAPPEN IN THE TRIAL OF THE MURDER OF THE JESUITS, THE JUSTICE AUTHORITIES WILL DETERMINE WHAT WILL BE DONE. WE WILL RESPECT THAT DECISION. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>