<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0662"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0662"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0662</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0662 (GE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 9 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [REPORT] [TEXT] [BEGIN RECORDING] [HANDAL, MEMBER OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT GENERAL COMMAND] WHAT DOES THIS TELL US? WHAT MESSAGE DOES THIS CONVEY? IT TELLS US THAT THESE ORGANIZATIONS, THE SO-CALLED SUPPORT ORGANIZATIONS -- THE COPREFA [ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE] CALLS THEM FRONTS -- ARE COMPONENTS OF THE ENEMY SIDE IN THE WAR.</p><p>WHEN THEY SIT DOWN TO TALK TO THE MAIN REPRESENTATIVES OF THE ENEMY, THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT], AND WHEN THEY NEGOTIATE ISSUES LIKE THE END TO HOSTILITIES, THE GOVERNMENT IMMEDIATELY MAKE DEMANDS AND ALL THESE POLITICAL, IDEOLOGICAL, PSYCHOLOGICAL, ETCETERA, ETCETERA, ACTIONS STOP. THE MESSAGE THIS CONVEYS IS THAT AS FAR AS THE GOVERNMENT IS CONCERNED, ALL THOSE ORGANIZATIONS ARE PART OF THE ENEMY SIDE IN THE WAR. WHAT HAPPENED LATER WAS THE CREATION OF MANY SUCH FRONTS. THE REPRESSION HAS BEEN GOING ON FOR QUITE SOME TIME AND HAD INCREASED. HOWEVER, THE GOVERNMENT HAD NEVER PRESENTED AN IDEA LIKE THIS ONE. ONCE IT DID, EVERYTHING BECAME VERY CLEAR. ALL THE PAST ACTIONS ARE PART OF THE GOVERNMENT'S AND THE ARMY'S WAR ACTIONS AGAINST ALL THESE EXPRESSIONS AND DEMONSTRATIONS BY THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>THE FENASTRAS [SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION] MASSACRE WAS PART OF THIS PLAN. THE KILLING OF 3 MEMBERS OF THE MPSC [SOCIAL CHRISTIAN PEOPLE'S MOVEMENT] IN SONSONATE CARRIED OUT BY THE 6TH MILITARY DETACHMENT IN FRONT OF WITNESSES -- THEY LEFT MESSAGES ON THE BODIES STATING THAT THEY WERE TRAITORS TO THE HOMELAND -- WAS CARRIED OUT WITH THE CLEAR INTENTION OF SENDING ANOTHER MESSAGE. THE MESSAGE IS: NOT ONLY IN THEORY DO WE CONSIDER YOU COMPONENTS OF THE ENEMY SIDE. YOU ARE THE ENEMY AND THAT IS WHY WE ARE KILLING YOU. [END RECORDING]</p><p>REGARDING THE VISIT TO EL SALVADOR OF BERNARD ARONSON, ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS, COMMANDER JORGE SHAFIK HANDAL SAID:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [HANDAL] THE HEADS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND MILITARY UNITS WHO CARRIED OUT THESE CRIMES REMAIN IN OFFICE. THOSE WHO GAVE THE ORDERS REMAIN IN OFFICE. THEN HOW CAN AN INVESTIGATION BE CARRIED OUT? A CHAIN OF COMMAND MUST BE FOLLOWED IN THE MILITARY. IF A SUBORDINATE IS GOING TO BE INTERROGATED, ONE MUST FIRST ASK PERMISSION FROM HIS SUPERIOR, AND THEY ARE THE SUPERIORS. BESIDES, NO ONE KNOWS WHO THE SUBORDINATES WHO PARTICIPATED ARE. THAT INFORMATION MUST COME FROM THE ARMY. THAT IS WHY WE HAVE SAID THAT THE LEAST THEY CAN DO BEFORE THEY BEGIN INVESTIGATING THIS INCIDENT IS REMOVE COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE. THAT WOULD BE THE RIGHT THING TO DO. I WOULD EVEN ADD THAT THERE ARE A FEW OTHERS WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED.</p><p>IF WE WERE LIVING IN A COUNTRY WITH A DEMOCRATIC POLITICAL SYSTEM AND WITH LABOR UNIONS, THAT WOULD BE COMMON PRACTICE. IT WOULD NOT EVEN BE NECESSARY TO BRING THIS UP AT A PUBLIC DEBATE. THE FIRST THING THE PRESIDENT SHOULD HAVE DONE AS COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF THE ARMED FORCES -- HE IS INVOLVED IN THESE CRIMES BECAUSE HE IS COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF THE ARMED FORCES -- IS REMOVE THEM AND NOT SAY THAT HE WAS NOT CONSULTED ON THIS MATTER. HE CLAIMS HE KNEW NOTHING ABOUT THIS, BUT WE HAVE OUR OWN SOURCES OF INFORMATION AND WE KNOW THAT HE KNEW. BUT IF HE WANTS US TO BELIEVE HIM WHEN HE SAYS THAT HE DID NOT KNOW, THEN THE FIRST THING HE SHOULD DO IS WHAT ANY MAN WITH ANY SELF-RESPECT WOULD DO: ASK FOR AN INVESTIGATION. HOWEVER, HE IS HINDERING THE INVESTIGATION, WHICH IS WHAT IS ALWAYS DONE WHEN SOMETHING LIKE THIS HAPPENS. WHEN THINGS LIKE THIS HAPPEN, A FEW -- THOSE WHO WANT TO SEE MATTERS CLARIFIED -- RESIGN, WHILE OTHERS ARE REMOVED. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>