<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0468"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0468"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN JOSE (COSTA RICA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0468</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0468 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>SAN JOSE (COSTA RICA), 12 SEP 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION OF GUATEMALA [CDH] CHARGED HERE TODAY THE "SHARED RESPONSIBILITY" OF PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO AND THE SECRET SERVICE OF THE ARMY (G-2) IN THE DEATH OF FOUR UNIVERSITY STUDENTS, WHOSE BRUTALLY MUTILATED BODIES WERE FOUND ON 10 SEPTEMBER IN A GUATEMALA CITY SUBURB.</p><p>THE FINDING COMES IN THE MIDDLE OF A WAVE OF KIDNAPPINGS, KILLINGS, AND DYNAMITE ATTACKS WHICH WERE UNLEASHED STARTING IN MID-JULY AND WHICH HAS SHOCKED THE GUATEMALANS. THE WHEREABOUTS OF SEVEN OTHER STUDENTS, KIDNAPPED BY ALLEGED DEATH SQUADS, REMAIN UNKNOWN. THESE SQUADS HAVE BEEN ON THE RAMPAGE SINCE 23 AUGUST.</p><p>IN A COMMUNIQUE TO VARIOUS POLITICAL, TRADE UNION, AND HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS, THE CHDG BRANCH IN SAN JOSE REQUESTED "URGENTLY" THE SENDING OF MESSAGES TO THE GUATEMALAN EMBASSIES, GOVERNMENT, AND ARMY CONDEMNING THE "IMPUNITY" OF THE DEATH SQUADS.</p><p>TWO OF THE MURDERED VICTIMS -- SILVIA AZURDIA AND HER HUSBAND VICTOR HUGO RODRIGUEZ -- WERE ABDUCTED BY EIGHT MEN IN CIVILIAN CLOTHES BEFORE WITNESSES WHO EVEN PROVIDED THE AUTHORITIES WITH THE LICENSE PLATE NUMBERS OF THE TWO VEHICLES USED BY THE KIDNAPPERS.</p><p>THE CDHG EXPRESSED "DEEP CONCERN OVER THESE EVENTS WHICH REFLECT A TOTAL LACK OF POLITICAL WILLINGNESS" ON THE PART OF THE GOVERNMENT TO END REPRESSION AGAINST THE PEOPLE.</p><p>ACCORDING TO HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS, GUATEMALA HOLDS A RECORD IN THE HEMISPHERE, 40,000 MISSING PERSONS IN THE LAST 20 YEARS.</p><p>ON 11 SEPTEMBER, IT WAS OFFICIALLY REPORTED THAT THE MUTILATED AND BULLET-RIDDLED BODIES OF THREE MORE UNIDENTIFIED GUATEMALANS WERE FOUND.</p><p>ONE OF THE UNIVERSITY STUDENTS KILLED LAST WEEKEND WAS CARLOS HUMBERTO CABRERA, WHO HAD RETURNED TO GUATEMALA AFTER SEVERAL YEARS OF EXILE TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE GUARANTEES ANNOUNCED BY THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT TO REPATRIATE HOME ANY GUATEMALAN WHO WISHED TO COME, THE LOCAL PRESS REPORTED TODAY.</p><p>ON THE OTHER HAND, HUMBERTO CHUTA, A BROTHER OF ONE OF THE VICTIMS, STATED THAT "IT SEEMS THAT WE ARE GOING TO LIVE ALL OUR LIVES AS IF WE WERE DOGS." HE REQUESTED CEREZO "DO WHATEVER IS NECESSARY TO INVESTIGATE THE SITUATION, IF HE IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR WHAT HAPPENED."</p></body></html>