<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0860"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0860"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0860</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0860 (GTE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 23 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] WHENEVER WE HAVE MADE ANY PEACE PROPOSAL, THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT ANSWERS BY SAYING IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO ACHIEVE PEACE AND THAT OUR PROPOSALS ARE NOT FEASIBLE BECAUSE WE MUST RESPECT THE CONSTITUTION. THAT IS WHAT ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] ALWAYS SAYS. WELL, WE WOULD LIKE TO ASK [U.S. AMBASSADOR] WILLIAM WALKER -- WHO HAS SAID IN THE UNITED STATES THAT THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] PEACE PROPOSALS ARE NOT FEASIBLE BECAUSE THEY VIOLATE THE SALVADORAN CONSTITUTION -- IF THE CONSTITUTION DOES NOT PROHIBIT FOREIGN TROOPS FROM COMING TO OUR COUNTRY WITHOUT THE GOVERNMENT'S APPROVAL? WE WOULD LIKE TO ASK THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT AND THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY WHY U.S. ARMY SPECIAL FORCES CAME TO EL SALVADOR, AS PRESIDENT BUSH HIMSELF ANNOUNCED? WE SAW THESE SPECIAL FORCES IN THE STREETS OF SAN SALVADOR, VIOLATING THE CONSTITUTION THAT YOU PEOPLE CLAIM TO DEFEND.</p><p>WE WANT TO ASK THE PATRIOTIC OFFICIALS: WHY ARE THERE THREE ARMIES RIGHT NOW IN THIS COUNTRY? THERE IS THE FMLN ARMY, THE LA TANDONA [REFERENCE TO 1966 GRADUATING CLASS OF THE CAPT GEN GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY ACADEMY] ARMY, AND PRESIDENT BUSH'S ARMY. SO, WHAT IS THE ANSWER? WHENEVER WE PROPOSE A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE CONFLICT, WE ARE TOLD IT IS IMPOSSIBLE BECAUSE IT VIOLATES THE CONSTITUTION. HOWEVER, PRESIDENT BUSH VIOLATED THE CONSTITUTION THAT THE GOVERNMENT AND THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY CLAIM TO DEFEND WHEN HE SENT A FOREIGN MILITARY FORCE TO THIS COUNTRY. HE ALSO VIOLATED THE SOVEREIGNTY OF THIS NATION. THEREFORE, GENTLEMEN OF ARENA AND OF THE HIGH COMMAND, THIS LOVE FOR THE CONSTITUTION AND THE LAWS THAT YOU CLAIM TO HAVE IS FALSE.</p><p>WE WANT TO ASK COLONEL PONCE: WHY IS THERE A FOREIGN MILITARY FORCE IN OUR COUNTRY RIGHT NOW? DOESN'T THE CONSTITUTION THAT YOUR ARMED FORCES CLAIM TO RESPECT PROHIBIT IT? IN OTHER WORDS, WHEN THE NATION WANTS A POLITICAL SOLUTION FOR THE SAKE OF PEACE, YOU PEOPLE SAY IT IS IMPOSSIBLE BECAUSE WE MUST RESPECT THE CONSTITUTION. HOWEVER, WHEN PRESIDENT BUSH ARROGANTLY ANNOUNCES IN HIS PRESIDENTIAL PLANE THAT HIS FORCES HAVE CARRIED OUT OPERATIONS IN A SAN SALVADOR HOTEL, THEN THE CONSTITUTION IS WORTH NOTHING.</p><p>WE WANT TO APPEAL TO THE ARMED FORCES OFFICERS TO THINK ABOUT THIS SITUATION. THERE ARE OFFICERS BEING KILLED ON THE BATTLEFIELDS. FOR EXAMPLE, AN OFFICER FROM THE MORAZAN BATTALION DIED IN ALTOS DE LA CUEVA IN SAN MIGUEL; LIEUTENANTS HAVE BEEN KILLED IN SAN SALVADOR CITY; DOZENS OF LIEUTENANTS HAVE BEEN WOUNDED OR KILLED IN THE LAST 10 DAYS. OFFICERS, YOU KNOW ABOUT THIS. SO WE WANT TO CALL ON THE LIEUTENANTS, THE CAPTAINS, THE PATRIOTIC OFFICERS, TO THINK ABOUT THIS SITUATION. YOU ARE BEING TOLD YOU ARE DEFENDING THE CONSTITUTION. WHAT CONSTITUTION? AFTER ALL, A HERD OF GRINGO RAMBOS IS HERE; AND WITH THEIR YANKEE BOOTS, THEY HAVE TRAMPLED ON THE CONSTITUTION. SO OFFICERS, WHAT ARE YOU DEFENDING? WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THIS? THIS SITUATION IS UNACCEPTABLE FOR ANY SALVADORAN PATRIOT. OFFICERS, WE KNOW YOU ARE LISTENING TO US IN THE GARRISONS TO FIND OUT WHAT IS HAPPENING, BECAUSE THE GOVERNMENT NETWORK IS HIDING THIS INFORMATION FROM YOU. YOU MUST THINK OVER THIS SITUATION, OFFICERS. YOU ARE SHEDDING BLOOD, LOSING ARMS AND LEGS IN THE BATTLEFIELDS, SACRIFICING YOUR LIVES, SEEING HOW THE CAPITAL CITY IS BEING DESTROYED BY THE BOMBINGS, AND YOU ARE TOLD THIS IS BEING DONE TO DEFEND THE CONSTITUTION. HOWEVER, MR BUSH DECIDED TO SEND A HERD OF RAMBOS WHO ARE GOOD FOR NOTHING. AFTER ALL, THEY DID NOTHING, EXCEPT COVER THEIR FACES LIKE COMMON CRIMINALS. SO, OFFICERS, WHAT ARE YOU FIGHTING FOR? WHAT IS AT STAKE HERE? IS IT COMMUNISM, OR THIS OR THAT? IS IT BECAUSE MSGR ROMERO WAS A COMMUNIST AND THEREFORE MURDERED? WAS IT BECAUSE THE JESUITS WERE COMMUNISTS AND THEREFORE MURDERED? NOW IT IS SAID THAT THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY MEMBERS ARE COMMUNISTS. OTHERS SAY THAT THE JOURNALISTS, THE TEACHERS ARE COMMUNISTS; EVERYONE IS A COMMUNIST. IS THIS A NATION OF COMMUNISTS? WHAT IS THIS? WE MUST START TO THINK ABOUT THIS SITUATION AT THIS CRITICAL HOUR FOR THE NATION. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>