<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1211"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1211"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1211</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1211 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [INTERVIEW WITH FMLN COMMANDER SANCHO BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [REPORTER] COMMANDER, THE FIGHTERS, EVEN SALVADORAN CITIZENS IN GENERAL, DO NOT UNDERSTAND CERTAIN ATTITUDES OF THE FMLN OR SOME OF THE COMMUNIQUES ISSUED BY THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND. WE SPENT EIGHT OR NINE YEARS FIGHTING THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY [PDC] AND JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE. WE REMEMBER [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE ASSASSINATION OF HERBERT ANAYA SANABRIA. HOWEVER, WHEN DUARTE DIED, A COMMUNIQUE WAS ISSUED DECLARING A TRUCE SO THAT THE FUNERAL COULD TAKE PLACE PEACEFULLY. HOW SHOULD WE VIEW ALL OF THESE APPARENT CHANGES OF POSITION BY THE FMLN?</p><p>[SANCHO] AS FOR JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE, WE HAVE TO POINT OUT THAT ADDITION TO BEING A POLITICAL FORCE, THE FMLN HAS HUMAN SENSITIVITY. WE THOUGHT IT WAS APPROPRIATE FOR US TO TAKE THIS HUMANE ACTION BY DECLARING A TRUCE SO THAT MR. DUARTE COULD BE BURIED. WE ALSO HAVE TO MENTION THAT THE PDC AND ALL OF THE LEFTIST FORCES OF THE COUNTRY CAN CONTRIBUTE TOWARD THE DEPOLARIZATION OF SOCIETY. THE TRUCE WAS A GESTURE, IT WAS TO MAKE THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE SEE THAT IT IS POSSIBLE TO DEPOLARIZE SOCIETY AND THAT EACH OF US CAN MAKE A CONTRIBUTION.</p><p>THAT IS WHY WE INSIST THAT ONE MUST NOT RETURN TO ONE'S ELECTORAL OR POLITICAL HEGEMONIC PLANS, BECAUSE THAT WOULD OBSTRUCT THE UNITY OF THE PEOPLE, WHICH IS NEEDED TO ISOLATE THE FASCISTS.</p><p>[REPORTER] COMMANDER, THERE WAS A DISCUSSION AT THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY WHEN DUARTE DIED BECAUSE THE PDC LEGISLATORS MOTIONED TO NAME HIM THE FATHER OF DEMOCRACY IN EL SALVADOR. [WORDS INDISTINCT] WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE, WHO WAS IN POWER FOR ALMOST 10 YEARS, AND ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON? WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THESE TWO POLITICIANS?</p><p>[SANCHO] WE BELIEVE THAT DUARTE WAS A FIGHTER FOR DEMOCRACY. HE HAD HIS OWN BELIEFS, HE HAD HIS OWN PERSONALITY, AND HE REALLY HAD CHARISMA; WE CANNOT DENY THAT. OF COURSE, WE CANNOT COMPARE HIM TO A CRIMINAL WHO IS BEING SOUGHT BY JUSTICE. I WOULD SAY THAT D'AUBUISSON IS A FUGITIVE FROM JUSTICE, WHO HAS SOUGHT SHELTER FROM HIS IMMUNITY AS A DEPUTY. HIS IMMUNITY AS A DEPUTY DOES NOT PRECLUDE HIS CRIMES. THERE IS NO COMPARISON BETWEEN DUARTE AND [WORDS INDISTINCT] WHO IS WELL-KNOWN, BUT IS VIOLENT AND UNPOPULAR.</p><p>[REPORTER] TO END THE FIRST PART OF THE INTERVIEW, ARE YOU OPTIMISTIC ABOUT A POSSIBLE CONCERTED EFFORT BY POPULAR AND DEMOCRATIC FORCES IN THE COUNTRY OR DO YOU BELIEVE THAT EACH WILL GO HIS OWN WAY. ARE YOU OPTIMISTIC ABOUT A CONCERTED EFFORT?</p><p>[SANCHO] A CONCERTED EFFORT IN A POLITICAL STRUGGLE OF ALL THE FORCES IN THE COUNTRY SHOULD NOT ONLY BE SEEN AS A POSSIBILITY, BUT MUST BE SEEN AS A POLITICAL NECESSITY FOR THE UNITY OF ALL POPULAR AND NATIONAL SECTORS, BECAUSE THIS WOULD BE THE ONLY FORMULA TO REBUILD THE COUNTRY, TO REUNITE THE COUNTRY, AND TO RECONCILE THE COUNTRY. THIS CAN ONLY BE DONE WITH A CONCERTED POLITICAL EFFORT. I BELIEVE THERE WILL BE OPPORTUNITIES OVER THE NEXT FEW MONTHS FOR CONCERTED POLITICAL EFFORTS, WHICH WILL REALLY GIVE NEW HOPE TO THE LARGE MAJORITY OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. WE MUST NOT FORGET ABOUT THE LARGE MAJORITY OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, BECAUSE SOMETIMES WE SPEAK ON BEHALF OF CERTAIN GROUPS OF THE COUNTRY AND NOT ON BEHALF OF THE MAJORITIES.</p></body></html>