<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0633"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0633"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0633</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0633 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 1 NOV 89 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [REPORT] [ALFREDO VILLARREAL] [TEXT] FOR THE THIRD DAY IN A ROW, THE BLOODBATH CONTINUES TO ROCK THIS CAPITAL CITY AND THE END TO THIS SITUATION, WHICH IS ALARMING THE PEOPLE, DOES NOT SEEM TO BE NEAR. ACCORDING TO REPORTS, THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] URBAN COMMANDS FAILED ONCE AGAIN THIS AFTERNOON WHEN THEY ATTACKED THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE LOCATED IN LAICO NEIGHBORHOOD. THE FMLN URBAN COMMANDS FIRED TWO RPG-2 ROCKET LAUNCHERS WHICH HIT A PRIVATE VEHICLE WITH LICENSE PLATE 72246 THAT WAS PASSING THE MILITARY GARRISON. AS A RESULT OF THE REBEL ATTACK, AN AGRONOMIST, IDENTIFIED AS 57- YEAR- OLD JOSE HERMOGENES MARTINEZ, WAS KILLED. WE DID NOT TAKE PICTURES OF HIS BODY BECAUSE IT WAS TOTALLY MUTILATED AS A RESULT OF THE STRONG EXPLOSION. ALSO INJURED WAS A STREET VENDOR IDENTIFIED AS MARIA DEL CARMEN PEREZ.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER] THERE WERE FOUR MEN IN A PICKUP, TWO SEATED IN FRONT AND TWO IN THE BACK. THE TWO WHO WERE IN THE BACK TOOK OUT THE BAZOOKAS AND FIRED ON THE GARRISON'S GATE. A MAN DRIVING A SUZUKI DROVE AT THE SAME TIME THE ROCKETS WERE LAUNCHED AND HE WAS HIT.</p><p>[REPORTER] HOW MANY PEOPLE WERE IN THE VEHICLE?</p><p>[UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER] FOUR. THE CAR WHERE THE INJURED MAN WAS? ONLY ONE PERSON, THE MAN WHO WAS INJURED.</p><p>[REPORTER] HOW MANY PEOPLE WERE IN THE VEHICLE FROM WHERE THE ROCKETS WHERE FIRED?</p><p>[UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER] FOUR PERSONS.</p><p>[REPORTER] AT WHAT TIME DID THAT HAPPEN?</p><p>[UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER] ABOUT 30 MINUTES AGO, AT APPROXIMATELY 1530.</p><p>[REPORTER] HOW MANY ROCKETS WERE FIRED?</p><p>[UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER] TWO.</p><p>[SECOND UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER] THE MAN WAS IN THE CAR. AFTER THE DEVICES EXPLODED -- WE DO NOT KNOW WHAT KIND WERE FIRED -- THERE WAS SMOKE AND GUNPOWDER ALL OVER THE PLACE. HIS CLOTHES AND BODY WERE TOTALLY DESTROYED. WHEN WE TOOK HIM TO THE ROSALES HOSPITAL WE TALKED TO A DOCTOR, AND HE SAID THAT THEY WERE GOING TO DO ALL THEY COULD TO SAVE HIS LIFE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>MEANWHILE, COLONEL FRANCISCO ELENA FUENTES, COMMANDER OF THE MILITARY GARRISON, REGRETTED THE ATTACK AND SAID THAT THESE ATTACKS ARE WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE VIOLENCE UNLEASHED IN THE PAST FEW DAYS BY GROUPS THAT ARE OUT OF CONTROL.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [FUENTES] YOU HAVE ALREADY SEEN THE VEHICLE. WE BELIEVE THE ROCKETS WERE AIMED AT THE GATE, AT THE GUARDS STANDING AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE HEADQUARTERS. PERHAPS THEY WERE AIMED AT ME BECAUSE I HAD BEEN IN THE AREA 5 MINUTES EARLIER.</p><p>THOSE PEOPLE ARE COMPLETELY OUT OF THEIR MINDS. THEY DO NOT CARE IF THE KILL INNOCENT CIVILIANS. THESE COULD BE GROUPS THAT THE FMLN CAN NO LONGER CONTROL OR PERHAPS THEY ARE ONLY KILLERS WHO ONLY KNOW HOW TO MURDER PEOPLE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE INJURED PERSONS WERE TAKEN TO ROSALES HOSPITAL IN SAN SALVADOR WHERE THEY WERE GIVEN EMERGENCY TREATMENT. THE STREET VENDOR SAYS THAT IT WAS A MIRACLE THAT SHE WAS NOT KILLED.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PEREZ] I DO NOT KNOW WHAT HAPPENED. I WAS JUST SITTING THERE AND I HEARD THE NOISE [WORDS INDISTINCT]. [END RECORDING]</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE FMLN URBAN GUERRILLAS SET FIRE TO A PUBLIC BUSH IN SANTA MARTA, SAN JACINTON NEIGHBORHOOD. THE REBELS DISTRIBUTED LEAFLETS STATING THAT THEY BURNED THE BUS IN REPRISAL FOR THE KILLING OF LEFTIST LEADER FEDE ELIZABETH VELASQUEZ.</p></body></html>