<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1070"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1070"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1070</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1070 (TRW)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 15 JAN 90 (EL MUNDO) -- [TEXT] SALVADORAN VICE PRESIDENT FRANCISCO MERINO LOPEZ HAS SAID THAT "THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] DOES NOT HAVE THE CAPACITY TO REPEAT A TERRORIST ATTACK LIKE THE ONE LAUNCHED ON 11 NOVEMBER BECAUSE IT DOES NOT HAVE THE LOGISTICAL OR OTHER NECESSARY SUPPORT AT THIS TIME, NOR WILL IT HAVE SUCH SUPPORT IN THE MONTHS TO COME."</p><p>MERINO SAID THAT THE FMLN REPEATS ITS TERRORIST ACTIVITIES IN CYCLES THAT MUST BE BROKEN TO PREVENT FURTHER SUFFERING AND BLOODSHED.</p><p>THE VICE PRESIDENT SAID THAT THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS HAVE LOST GROUND IN EVERY WAY AND THE DIALOGUE MUST BE RESUMED AS THE ONLY WAY TO ACHIEVE A FIRM AND LASTING PEACE IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>"THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC HAS NEVER BEEN NAIVE REGARDING THE FMLN'S LACK OF SINCERITY DURING THE DIALOGUE, BUT IT IS OUR DUTY TO SEEK PEACE THROUGH REASON, EVEN THOUGH WE ARE AWARE OF THE FMLN'S WARLIKE ATTITUDE," MERINO SAID.</p><p>REGARDING THE FMLN'S DESIRE TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING TO BE HELD BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC WITH THE SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE UNITED NATIONS IN NEW YORK, MERINO SAID THE GUERRILLAS CANNOT HOPE TO BE ON AN EQUAL FOOTING WITH THE PRESIDENT OF EL SALVADOR.</p><p>"THE PRESIDENT IS GOING TO NEW YORK TO EXPRESS, ONCE AGAIN, THE SINCERITY WITH WHICH THE GOVERNMENT SEEKS TO ACHIEVE PEACE THROUGH DIALOGUE. THE FMLN'S HOPE OF HAVING A TETE-A-TETE WITH THE PRESIDENT AT THE UNITED NATIONS IS TOTALLY ABSURD," THE VICE PRESIDENT SAID.</p><p>MERINO SAID THAT THE GUERRILLA'S ONLY WAY OUT IS TO GIVE UP THE ARMED STRUGGLE AND JOIN IN THE COUNTRY'S DEMOCRATIC LIFE, ALTHOUGH HE CONCEDED THAT THE PROCESS WILL BE DIFFICULT AND THAT IT WILL NATURALLY HAVE TO BE GRADUAL IN ORDER FOR THE GUERRILLA FIGHTERS TO FEEL SAFE "WITHOUT HAVING A WEAPON AT THE READY."</p><p>ON THE OTHER HAND, IN REFERENCE TO THE CASE OF THE JESUITS, IN WHICH MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES HAVE BEEN IMPLICATED, MERINO ADVISED CAUTION REGARDING STATEMENTS THAT VARIOUS GROUPS IN THE COUNTRY MIGHT MAKE.</p><p>"PRUDENCE IS NECESSARY IN ORDER TO GET TO THE TRUTH," MERINO SAID. HE POINTED OUT THAT THE ADVANCES MADE IN INVESTIGATIONS OF THE CASE PROVE THE DEGREE OF DEMOCRACY THAT PREVAILS IN THE COUNTRY.</p></body></html>