<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0091"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0091"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0091</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0091 (NOSC)</p><p>LA PAZ, 29 MAR 89 -- [TEXT] INTERIOR MINISTRY UNDER SECRETARY WALTER COSTAS BADANI HAS STATED THAT BOLIVIAN INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY ORGANIZATIONS HAVE YET TO DETECT THE PRESENCE OF SHINING PATH TERRORISTS IN BOLIVIA.</p><p>COSTAS BADANI TOLD PANAMERICANA THAT THE PERUVIAN PRESS ON VARIOUS OCCASIONS HAS TRIED TO IMPLICATE BOLIVIAN TIES IN THIS TERRORIST ORGANIZATION'S ACTIVITIES.</p><p>COSTAS BADANI POINTED OUT THAT THE SHINING PATH GUERRILLAS HAVE CONDUCTED THEIR TERRORIST OPERATIONS EXCLUSIVELY IN PERUVIAN TERRITORY AND THAT BOLIVIA HAS NO CONNECTION WHATSOEVER WITH THIS GUERRILLA ORGANIZATION.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [COSTAS BADANI] THE REPORTS ABOUT THESE TIES ARE ALARMING AND GROUNDLESS. THE INTERNATIONAL PRESS, AND ESPECIALLY THE PERUVIAN MEDIA, HAVE OFTEN TRIED TO INVOLVE BOLIVIA IN THE TERRORIST PROBLEMS, WHICH I DO NOT THINK HAVE GONE BEYOND PERU'S BORDERS. WE HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH THEM, AND ANY RUMOR IN THIS REGARD IS GROUNDLESS SPECULATION. [END RECORDING]</p><p>COSTAS BADANI ALSO SAID THAT, IF NECESSARY, THE APPROPRIATE GOVERNMENT SECURITY ORGANIZATIONS WILL CARRY OUT THEIR SPECIFIC DUTIES IN A COORDINATED MANNER. THIS MEANS THAT THEY WILL EXCHANGE INFORMATION WITH SIMILAR ORGANIZATIONS OF THE ARMED FORCES.</p></body></html>