<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1264"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1264"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1264</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1264 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 3 MAY 90 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY MODERATOR AND REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [CRISTIANI] HOWEVER, THE FMLN IDEA THAT THEY HAVE TO SHOW FORCE HERE, OR THERE, OR SOMEWHERE IS NOT LOGICAL. THE IMPORTANT POINT IS THAT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WANT TO LIVE IN PEACE AND TRANQUILITY. THEREFORE, IT MAKES NO DIFFERENCE THAT THEY MAY HAVE 1,000, 2,000, OR 100. THAT DOES NOT MATTER. I THINK THAT, WHETHER THEY HAVE A HIGH OR A LOW MORALE OR WHATEVER, WITH JUST 100 RADICALS THEY COULD KILL PEOPLE AND DESTROY SOURCES OF EMPLOYMENT. IN SUM, THEY CAUSE PANIC AND TERROR IN SOME HAMLETS. I BELIEVE THAT HAS TO BE STOPPED. IT IS NOT A MATTER OF WHO SHOWS FORCE AND WHO DOES NOT. REGARDLESS OF THE DEMONSTRATIONS OF FORCE THE FMLN MAY CARRY OUT, WE STILL BELIEVE THAT, IN THE LONG RUN, THE MILITARY VICTORY BY THE GOVERNMENT FORCES AND THE GOVERNMENT IS POSSIBLE, BECAUSE THEY HAVE A STRONG MORAL SUPPORT. THE GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN ELECTED BY THE PEOPLE AND HAS THE SUPPORT OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. THE PEOPLE SUPPORT THE SYSTEM AND THE GOVERNMENT, NO MATTER WHO IS HEADING IT, NOT JUST A PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL. HOWEVER, THAT IS NOT THE POINT. WE DO NOT WANT THIS CONFLICT TO LAST 10 YEARS LONGER, WITH MORE BLOODSHED. THEREFORE, WE ARE SEARCHING FOR A POLITICAL SOLUTION BECAUSE WE BELIEVE IN IT, NOT BECAUSE IT SUITS US BECAUSE THEY ARE STRONGER OR NOT STRONGER.</p><p>[MODERATOR] JAMES LOHMAN.</p><p>[LOHMAN] MR. PRESIDENT, WITH THE REDUCTION IN THE U.S. GOVERNMENT'S MILITARY AID, HAS YOUR GOVERNMENT CONSIDERED THE POSSIBILITY OF SEEKING MILITARY AID IN OTHER COUNTRIES ON THIS CONTINENT OR FROM OTHER PARTS OF THE WORLD? FOR EXAMPLE, WE KNOW THAT A COUNTRY LIKE ISRAEL HAS GIVEN MILITARY AID TO CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES. HAVE YOU CONSIDERED THAT POSSIBILITY?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] I CAN ONLY TELL YOU THAT, YES, CERTAINLY, THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC HAS THE DUTY OF DEFENDING THE SYSTEM AND THE SALVADORAN DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS, AND -- REGARDLESS OF WHAT MAY HAPPEN, AND WE HOPE THAT WILL NOT OCCUR -- IF THAT HAPPENS, WE WILL ALWAYS HAVE TO SEEK ALTERNATE RESOURCES FOR THE DEFENSE OF THE COUNTRY'S DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS. A FEW DAYS AGO I LISTENED TO STATEMENTS BY SOME POLITICIANS AND MEMBERS OF OTHER SECTORS, WHO COMPLAINED BECAUSE I SAID: WE HAVE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF DEFENDING THE DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS, WE HAVE TO FIND THE RESOURCES, AND THERE ARE OTHER ALTERNATIVES TO GET RESOURCES FOR THE NATIONAL DEFENSE. THOSE POLITICIANS SAID IT WOULD BE DISASTROUS TO AFFECT SOCIAL PROGRAMS TO HELP THE NEEDY. THAT IS ACTUALLY WHAT THOSE POLITICIANS SHOULD THINK ABOUT WHEN THEY ASK FOR A REDUCTION IN AID. I BELIEVE THAT IS SOMETHING THE GOVERNMENT CANNOT NEGLECT. THE GOVERNMENT MUST DEFEND THE SYSTEM FROM POSSIBLE ATTACKS -- THROUGH VIOLENCE TO REACH POWER -- WHICH HAS BEEN TERMED BY CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS AND BY MANY COUNTRIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD AS ILLEGAL.</p><p>[LOHMAN] HAVE YOU CONSIDERED [WORDS INDISTINCT]</p><p>[CRISTIANI] ALL I CAN TELL YOU IS THAT WE ARE TAKING INTO CONSIDERATION SOME ALTERNATIVES. HOWEVER, WE ARE NOT GOING TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY'S DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS DEFENSELESS.</p><p>[MODERATOR] WE WILL NOW HAVE QUESTIONS IN ENGLISH. TOM GIBBS FROM THE BBC.</p><p>[GIBBS] WHAT WOULD BE THE EFFECT OF CUTTING U.S. MILITARY AID? AND ALSO IT SEEMS THAT THE DEMOCRATS IN CONGRESS PUT AS A HIGH PRIORITY FOR THE CONTINUATION OF AID THE [WORDS INDISTINCT] JESUITS' CASE, AND ALSO THE CLEANING UP OF THE OFFICERS CORPS OF THE ARMY, OR CHANGES IN THE MILITARY. HOW INCONVENIENT WOULD IT BE TO YOUR GOVERNMENT, OR HOW [WORDS INDISTINCT] IT WOULD BE TO YOUR GOVERNMENT TO BE ABLE TO [WORDS INDISTINCT]?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] WELL, I THINK THAT, FIRST OF ALL, THE EFFECT OF THE REDUCTION OR CUT OF AID WOULD BE TWOFOLD. ON THE FIRST HAND, I THINK IT WOULD BE A NEGATIVE SIGNAL FOR THE FMLN AND FOR THE OBJECTIVE OF TRYING TO FIND AN END TO THE CONFLICT THROUGH THE DIALOGUE PROCESS THAT HAS BEEN STARTED, AND THAT A CUT IN AID MIGHT BE ANALYZED BY SOME OF THE MEMBERS, OR ALL THE MEMBERS OF THE FMLN, AS MEANING A WEAKENING OF THE GOVERNMENT AND ITS DEFENSE AND THAT, THEREFORE, THEIR MILITARY VICTORY IS NOW CLOSER. AND IT WOULD MAKE IT A LOT MORE DIFFICULT TO END THE CONFLICT IN A SHORT WHILE THROUGH A POLITICAL DIALOGUE. SECONDLY, OBVIOUSLY THE GOVERNMENT HAS THE RESPONSIBILITY TO DEFEND THE INSTITUTIONS, THE DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS OF THE COUNTRY, AND WILL NOT STAND BY WITH A WEAKENED DEFENSE. THEREFORE, THIS MEANS REALLOCATING RESOURCES THAT MIGHT BE USED FOR OTHER TYPES OF PROGRAMS -- SOCIAL PROGRAMS, ECONOMIC, OR POLITICAL PROGRAMS THAT THE GOVERNMENT CAN HAVE ACCESS TO, AND OBVIOUSLY TO REALLOCATE RESOURCES FOR DEFENSE PURPOSES. THUS, IT WOULD HAVE A TWOFOLD IMPACT IF THAT WAS THE CASE.</p><p>ON THE OTHER HAND, I THINK THAT THE JUDICIAL PROCESS IN THE CASE OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS IS ONGOING. IT WILL BE DIFFICULT FOR ME [WORDS INDISTINCT] TO THINK THAT BEFORE IT HAS ENDED, THAT THERE IS PREJUDGEMENT ON WHAT THE RESULTS WOULD BE. I THINK THAT THE JUDGE, AS I SAID EARLIER, HAS RECEIVED AT LEAST THE VISITS OF MANY PEOPLE. JUST RECENTLY A GROUP OF LAWYERS FROM SPAIN CAME IN AND ANALYZED THE CASE, AND WERE VERY PLEASED WITH THE WAY THE JUDGE WAS HANDLING THE CASE, ACCORDING, OBVIOUSLY, TO SALVADORAN LAW. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>