<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0704"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0704"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0704</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0704 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 NOV 89 -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] IN THE FIRST CASE, THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS WILL IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY'S DIRECTORATE BOARD OF THE REASONS FOR SUCH A MEASURE AND THE ACTIONS THAT WERE CARRIED OUT IN REGARD TO THE MEASURE.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE JUDICIAL NORMS STATED IN OUR CONSTITUTION, TODAY THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS HAS DECIDED TO DECLARE A STATE OF SEIGE AS A MEASURE TO PROTECT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WHO ARE BEING UNJUSTLY ATTACKED BY THE IRRATIONALITY AND SAVAGERY OF THE FMLN'S TERRORISM, WHICH THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC CANNOT AND MUST NOT ALLOW. TOMORROW WE WILL SUBMIT TO THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY'S DIRECTORATE BOARD THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING IN WHICH THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS TODAY DECIDED TO SUSPEND THE CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS STATED IN ARTICLE 29 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC.</p><p>IN THIS REGARD, WE WISH TO ISSUE AN APPEAL TO THE POLITICAL PARTIES. THIS IS NOT THE TIME TO REMAIN DOUBTFUL. NOW IS THE TIME FOR ALL THOSE WHO INTEND TO WORK WITHIN A DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM TO STATE -- IN A CATEGORICAL MANNER -- THAT THEY ABIDE BY AND SUPPORT THE REPUBLIC'S INSTITUTIONS AND THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS THAT ALLOWS THEM TO WORK AND PEACEFULLY WAGE A STRUGGLE TO ATTAIN POWER. WE CAN NO LONGER ALLOW POLITICAL PARTIES TO QUESTION WHETHER OR NOT THE FMLN IS OR IS NOT TRYING TO DO AWAY WITH THE RIGHTS THAT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE HAVE DEMANDED TIME AND AGAIN IN A DEMOCRATIC WAY.</p><p>WE ALSO URGE THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS TO TELL THEIR RESPECTIVE PEOPLES AND GOVERNMENTS OF THE TRUE NATURE OF THE FMLN AND HOW IT WANTS TO SUBJUGATE THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>THEY MUST ALSO LISTEN AND CONDEMN DANIEL ORTEGA FOR WHAT HE HAS BEEN SAYING THESE DAYS. HE SHOULD BE CONDEMNED BECAUSE HE HAS BEEN TRYING TO CONFUSE THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY BY SAYING THAT IN EL SALVADOR THE GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN CARRYING OUT INDISCRIMINATE BOMBINGS. HOWEVER, EVERYBODY HERE KNOWS THAT THE FMLN HAS BEEN PLANTING BOMBS, AND SO FAR 8 CIVILIANS HAVE BEEN KILLED AND MORE THAN 100 HAVE BEEN WOUNDED AS A RESULT OF THAT INDISCRIMINATE TERRORISM.</p><p>IT IS NECESSARY TO CONDEMN ORTEGA AND MAKE HIM RESPONSIBLE FOR SENDING THE WEAPONS USED TO KILL AND TO BLEED THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE TO DEATH. HE SHOULD NO LONGER BE ALLOWED TO CONTINUE THESE ACTIONS WHILE TRYING TO HIDE THEM AND TO DECEIVE THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY.</p><p>IT IS ALSO TIME TO OPENLY CONDEMN THE FMLN FOR ITS IRRATIONAL ACTIONS. EVERYBODY KNOWS THAT SINCE THE 1ST DAY OF THIS ADMINISTRATION, THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OFFERED TO BEGIN A DIALOGUE PROCESS. IT OFFERED TO SOLVE THIS PROBLEM THROUGH RATIONAL AND PEACEFUL MEANS, SINCE THAT IS WHAT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WANTED AND THAT IS WHAT THEY DEMANDED ON 19 MARCH ELECTION DAY.</p><p>WE CAN NO LONGER ALLOW THE FMLN LEADERS TO TRAVEL FREELY THROUGHOUT THE WORLD IN AN ATTEMPT TO DISINFORM THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, WHICH INSTEAD OF FALLING INTO THE TRAP OF DISINFORMATION SHOULD CATEGORICALLY CONDEMN THE FMLN'S IRRATIONAL ACTIONS [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>WE ARE NOT ISSUING THIS CALL TO THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS ON BEHALF OF THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT. WE ARE MAKING THIS CALL ON BEHALF OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WHO ARE SUBJECT TO THE SAVAGERY OF INDISCRIMINATE TERRORISM. WE ISSUE THIS CALL BECAUSE WE BELIEVE AND WE ARE CONVINCED THAT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE DO NOT DESERVE THIS FATE. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE DO NOT DESERVE TO BE ATTACKED WITH TERRORIST BOMBS. THEY SHOULD NOT BE FACING THE THREATS THE FMLN IS TRYING TO CARRY OUT. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE HAVE SHOWN THE WORLD DURING THESE LONG 10 YEARS THAT THEY WANT PEACE, DEMOCRACY, PROGRESS, AND DO NOT WANT TO LIVE UNDER SYSTEMS THAT ARE ALREADY OBSOLETE IN HISTORY, THAT ARE NO LONGER JUSTIFIED OR ACCEPTED AT THIS TIME WHEN THE WORLD IS EVOLVING TOWARD PEACE AND DEMOCRACY.</p><p>ON BEHALF OF THE PEOPLE, WE ARE ASKING YOU TO CONDEMN THE FMLN'S IRRATIONAL ATTITUDE.</p><p>WE ALSO WANT TO TELL THE FMLN THAT THE ARMED FORCES ARE SUPPORTING THEIR PEOPLE AND WILL NEVER PERMIT TERRORIST ACTIONS TO LEAD TO ANYTHING ELSE BUT THE DESTRUCTION OF THAT MOVEMENT THAT HAS TAINTED OUR HISTORY. WE WANT THEM TO KNOW THAT THE WAY TO SOLVE PROBLEMS IN EL SALVADOR IS THROUGH REASONING AND PEACEFUL MEANS AND THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC WILL CONTINUE TRYING TO ACHIEVE PEACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE AND WITHIN THAT FRAMEWORK: THROUGH REASONING AND PEACEFUL MEANS.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE, AGAIN WE URGE YOU TO REMAIN CALM. THE ARMED FORCES ARE CONTROLLING THE SITUATION. WE WILL SOON LIVE NORMAL LIVES AGAIN. HOWEVER, AT THIS TIME WE ASK ALL OF YOU TO SUPPORT THE PEACE PROCESS, TO JOIN FORCES IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE PEACE. THE FMLN SHOULD FEEL THE PEOPLE'S PRESSURE AGAINST ITS IRRATIONAL ACTIONS.</p><p>WE ARE SURE THAT WITH YOU -- THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, ARMED FORCES, AND GOVERNMENT -- WE WILL ACHIEVE PEACE IN EL SALVADOR. GOD BLESS YOU ALL.</p></body></html>