<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0368"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0368"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0368</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0368 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 23 AUG 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUGGLE AGAINST THE DRUG CARTELS CONTINUES. THE OPERATIONS CARRIED OUT BY THE AUTHORITIES IN MEDELLIN HAVE RESULTED IN 70 RAIDS. HOUSES, FARMS, DISCOTHEQUES, AND APARTMENTS REPORTEDLY OWNED BY PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA HAVE BEEN SEIZED BY THE AUTHORITIES; 921 PERSONS HAVE BEEN ARRESTED, 2 OF WHOM FACE CHARGES THAT MERIT THEIR EXTRADITION.</p><p>THE OFFENSIVE LAUNCHED BY THE MILITARY AUTHORITIES AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKERS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY HAS BEEN PARTICULARLY EFFECTIVE IN ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT. HOURS AFTER LEARNING ABOUT THE MEASURES ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENT TO COUNTER DRUG TRAFFICKERS, REGIONAL AUTHORITIES LAUNCHED A LARGE-SCALE PLAN TO CARRY OUT RAIDS AND CONFISCATIONS, AND TO SET UP ROAD BLOCKS.</p><p>TWENTY-TWO PROPERTIES -- INCLUDING FARMS, DISCOTHEQUES, BUILDINGS, AND RESTAURANTS -- WERE SEIZED UNDER THE CHARGES THAT THEY WERE OWNED BY MEMBERS OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL. THE MOST OUTSTANDING CASES INCLUDE THE MONACO BUILDING -- WHICH WAS ALMOST DESTROYED DURING A DYNAMITE ATTACK LAST YEAR, WAS BEING REPAIRED, AND HAD PRACTICALLY BEEN RESTORED TO ITS FORMER SPLENDOR -- GAMA BUILDING, INTERNATIONAL DISCOTHEQUE, CAMA SUELTA DISCOTHEQUE FORTALEZA DEL LAURO DISCOTHEQUE, AND DON MATEO DISCOTHEQUE, UNDOUBTEDLY THE MOST LUXURIOUS IN THE CITY.</p><p>SEVERAL FARMS WERE ALSO SEIZED, INCLUDING EL BIZCOCHO FARM, WHERE SEVERAL WEAPONS CACHES WERE FOUND, AND LAS AGUILAS FARM, BECAUSE THE VALUE OF ITS FURNITURE AND APPLIANCES SURPASS 3 BILLION PESOS. THE MAIN CHARACTERISTIC IN ALL THE CONFISCATED PROPERTIES IS THEIR LUXURY AND ECCENTRICISM, THUS MAKING THEIR TOTAL VALUE INCALCULABLE.</p><p>THE AUTHORITIES ALSO SEIZED WEAPONS, VEHICLES, AND COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT. THE FIRST REPORT INDICATES 921 PERSONS WERE ARRESTED BUT THE FIGURE COULD BE HIGHER, GIVEN THE OPERATIONS CARRIED OUT IN RECENT HOURS. THE ARRESTED PERSONS INCLUDE TWO WHO REPORTEDLY FACE ENOUGH CHARGES TO GUARANTEE THEIR EXTRADITION.</p><p>MEANWHILE, ANOTHER PERSON HAS BEEN ARRESTED IN CONNECTION WITH INTERNATIONAL DRUG TRAFFICKING OPERATIONS. SHE IS ANA ELENA BEATRIZ RODRIGUEZ, WHO IS THE THIRD EXTRADITABLE PERSON SOUGHT BY U.S. AUTHORITIES IN CONNECTION WITH MONEY LAUNDERING. SHE WAS CAPTURED IN CARTAGENA.</p><p>THE COLOMBIAN ARMY'S RAIDS ON PROPERTIES REPORTEDLY OWNED BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS STILL CONTINUE. TWO NEW FARMS LOCATED WITHIN THE MOUNTAIN RANGE IN PALMIRA MUNICIPALITY JURISDICTION WERE RECENTLY SEIZED BY THE ARMED FORCES. LA RUIZA FARM, A SYNONYM FOR OSTENTATION AND LUXURY, IS A RECREATION CENTER OWNED, ACCORDING TO THE AUTHORITIES, BY RAMIRO CORREA. PEOPLE VISITING THE FARM COULD ENJOY THE POOLS, SURROUNDED BY LUXURY RUGS, JACUZZIS, A TENNIS COURT, BARS, EXOTICALLY DECORATED BEDROOMS, AND A FOUNTAIN IN THE MIDDLE OF THE LIVING ROOM.</p><p>THE AUTHORITIES SEIZED A SIZEABLE AMOUNT OF WEAPONS, COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT, BULLET-PROOF VESTS, AMMUNITION FOR RIFLES, GRENADES BROUGHT FROM ISRAEL, MILITARY UNIFORMS, AND INFRA-RED SIGHTS -- WHICH NOT EVEN THE ARMY HAS -- AT EL ROSAL FARM, LOCATED IN THE AREA OF POTRERILLOS. THE AUTHORITIES ALSO SEIZED MOTORCYCLES SMUGGLED INTO THE COUNTRY. MOST OF THE VALLEY WAS VISIBLE FROM A LOOKOUT TOWER, PROBABLY FOR SECURITY REASONS OR FOR ENTERTAINMENT PURPOSES. THE MAIN ATTRACTION AT THE FARM WERE TRAINED HIGH- STEPPING COLOMBIAN HORSES. THE OWNERS OF THESE FARMS HAVE YET TO BE ARRESTED, AND THERE IS STILL NO INFORMATION ON THEIR WHEREABOUTS. THE VALUE OF THESE PROPERTIES IS CALCULATED IN MORE THAN 100 BILLION PESOS.</p><p>THE AUTHORITIES CONTINUE TO DEAL BLOWS TO THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS IN ATLANTICO DEPARTMENT. BERNARDO LONDONO QUINTERO, A NATIVE OF PEREIRA AND ACCUSED OF BEING A MEMBER OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, WAS CAPTURED EARLY THIS MORNING NORTH OF BARRANQUILLA. THE AUTHORITIES ARE CURRENTLY INVESTIGATING LONDONO'S ACTIVITIES BECAUSE HE IS APPARENTLY SOUGHT BY THE U.S. AUTHORITIES. FURTHERMORE, THE BARRANQUILLA AUTHORITIES HAVE ARRESTED ALBERTO ORLANDES GAMBOA, A 34-YEAR-OLD NATIVE OF BARRANQUILLA WHO IS CONSIDERED ANOTHER EXTRADITABLE PERSON. THE AUTHORITIES CONFISCATED HIS WINE-COLORED TOYOTA LAND CUISER AND A BROWNING 9-MM PISTOL.S EVERAL RAIDS ARE CURRENTLY UNDER WAY IN NORTHERN BARRANQUILLA AT RESIDENCES PRESUMABLY OWNED BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS.</p></body></html>