<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0612"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0612"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="WASHINGTON DC (USA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0612</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0612 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>WASHINGTON DC (USA), 28 OCT 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI SAID TODAY THAT THE DECISION TO SUSPEND THE CEASE-FIRE IN NICARAGUA, AS IT HAS BEEN ANNOUNCED BY NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ORTEGA, WOULD BE "VERY UNFORTUNATE" AND "WOULD POSE PROBLEMS FOR THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PEACE PLAN."</p><p>DURING AN INTERVIEW GRANTED IN SAN JOSE TO CNN, A U.S. TELEVISION NETWORK, CRISTIANI ALSO SAID THAT HE HAS DISCARDED THE POSSIBILITY OF A MILITARY INTERVENTION IN PANAMA. REGARDING HIS TALKS WITH THE ARMED OPPOSITION IN HIS COUNTRY HE SAID HE IS "CAUTIOUSLY OPTIMISTIC."</p><p>CRISTIANI SAID HE WOULD BE "DISAPPOINTED" IF THE NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT WERE TO SUSPEND THE UNILATERAL CEASE-FIRE DECREED ON 21 MARCH 1988. THIS WOULD PROVE, CRISTIANI SAID, THAT ORTEGA IS NOT WILLING "TO RESPECT THE PROMISES MADE IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PEACE PLAN" SIGNED IN 1987 BY COSTA RICA, EL SALVADOR, NICARAGUA, GUATEMALA, AND HONDURAS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO CRISTIANI, ORTEGA HAS ALREADY BROKEN HIS COMMITMENT BY CONTINUING TO SEND ARMS TO THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN), AS HONDURAS REVEALED THIS WEEK.</p><p>CRISTIANI ADMITTED, HOWEVER, THAT "NOT MUCH CAN BE DONE" IF ORTEGA UPHOLDS THE DECISION HE ANNOUNCED ON 27 OCTOBER IN SAN JOSE WHERE HE AND 15 OTHER CHIEFS OF STATE OF THE CONTINENT ATTENDED AN INTER - AMERICAN SUMMIT.</p><p>REGARDING PANAMA, THE SALVADORAN PRESIDENT SAID THAT THE OAS COUNTRIES WILL "CONTINUE MAKING EFFORTS, ESPECIALLY DIPLOMATIC EFFORTS, TO ESTABLISH DEMOCRACY" IN THAT COUNTRY "IN THE NEAR FUTURE." HE DISCARDED THE POSSIBILITY OF A MILITARY INTERVENTION IN PANAMA. "NO ONE HERE (IN SAN JOSE, WHERE MEMBERS OF THE PANAMANIAN OPPOSITION WERE ALSO PRESENT) IS IN FAVOR OF A MILITARY INTERVENTION IN PANAMA."</p><p>CRISTIANI STATED HIS SUPPORT FOR U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH WITH REGARD TO THE RECENT COUP ATTEMPT IN PANAMA. CRISTIANI SAID THAT BUSH "DID WHAT HE HAD TO" WHEN HE REJECTED A MILITARY INTERVENTION ON THE SIDE OF THE COUPISTS. REGARDING THE PEACE TALKS HIS GOVERNMENT IS HOLDING WITH THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN], CRISTIANI DECLARED HIMSELF "CAUTIOUSLY OPTIMISTIC" AND NOTED THAT CONTRARY TO THE TALKS HELD BETWEEN THE FMLN AND FORMER PRESIDENT JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE, THE CURRENT MEETINGS ARE NOT "ISOLATED EVENTS." NOW, HE SAID, "THE PROCESS IS COMPLETELY DIFFERENT." THIS PROCESS, HE ADDED, IS THE "RESULT OF AN AGREEMENT SIGNED LAST SEPTEMBER IN MEXICO BY THE TWO SIDES."</p><p>REGARDING CHARGES BY A SALVADORAN SOLDIER, CESAR VIELMAN JOYA MARTINEZ, WHO SAID THIS WEEK THAT HE PARTICIPATED IN ASSASSINATIONS COMMITTED BY A DEATH SQUAD ON ORDERS, ACCORDING TO HIM, FROM THE SALVADORAN HIGH MILITARY COMMAND AND WHO ALSO NOTED THAT U.S. MILITARY ADVISERS HAD TO KNOW WHAT WAS GOING ON, CRISTIANI SAID THAT THESE CHARGES ARE PART OF "FMLN EFFORTS" TO DISCREDIT HIS GOVERNMENT.</p><p>MARTINEZ WILL BE "SENTENCED TO JAIL FOR HAVING DONE WHAT HE HAS SAID HE HAS DONE," CRISTIANI SAID. THE SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ADMITTED THAT THIS TYPE OF INCIDENT STILL OCCURS BUT NOTED THAT THE SALVADORAN AUTHORITIES PUNISH CRIME.</p><p>CRISTIANI CONCLUDED BY STATING: "MARTINEZ IS A DESERTER AND A WARRANT FOR HIS ARREST HAS BEEN ISSUED."</p><p>JOYA MARTINEZ, WHO FLED HIS COUNTRY IN JULY AND SOUGHT POLITICAL ASYLUM IN THE UNITED STATES, MADE HIS STATEMENTS TO A GROUP OF JOURNALISTS IN WASHINGTON.</p></body></html>