<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0728"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0728"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0728</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0728 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 14 NOV 89 (CADENA REVOLUCIONARIA NACIONAL) -- [STATEMENT] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] [TEXT] SINCE 1981 THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] HAS BEEN INSISTING ON THE NEED FOR A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE WAR. ITS EFFORTS MET WITH THE STUBBORN OPPOSITION OF THE ARMED FORCES AND THE COUNTRY'S ULTRARIGHTIST SECTORS, WHO ARE THE ONES WHO IN REALITY HAVE WIELDED TOTAL POWER.</p><p>WE PRESENTED DOZENS OF NEGOTIATING PROPOSALS IN WHICH WE INCREASINGLY MADE OUR POSITIONS MORE FLEXIBLE, EVEN THOUGH THE MILITARY REALITY DEMONSTRATED THAT WE WERE INVINCIBLE. WE PRESENTED TO THE CURRENT NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE [ARENA] GOVERNMENT A PROPOSAL THAT HAD REAL POSSIBILITIES OF BRINGING ABOUT PEACE. HOWEVER, THE RESPONSE WE RECEIVED WAS AN ESCALATION OF REPRESSION BY MEANS OF TORTURE AND MURDER, WHICH CULMINATED WITH THE MASSACRE OF THE WORKERS OF THE SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION [FENASTRAS].</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT REJECTED OUR FORMULAS FOR NEGOTIATION IN WORD AND IN DEED, AND INSTEAD DEEPENED THE CAUSES BEHIND THE WAR BY WORSENING THE SOCIAL CRISIS AND REDUCING THE RANGE OF ACTIVITY OF THE POPULAR SECTORS. FACED WITH A DANGEROUS SITUATION THAT THREATENED NOT ONLY TO SHUT OFF A PEACEFUL SOLUTION TO THE WAR, BUT INSTEAD TO INCREASE THE KILLINGS AND OTHER FLAGRANT VIOLATIONS OF OUR PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC RIGHTS, THE FMLN DECIDED TO LAUNCH A FORCEFUL AND STRATEGIC MILITARY OFFENSIVE THAT WOULD PUT A HALT TO THE FASCISTS AND OPEN UP A POSSIBILITY TO BRING AN END TO THE WAR.</p><p>CONSEQUENTLY, AT 2000 ON 11 NOVEMBER OUR FORCES ENTERED INTO COMBAT AGAINST ALL THE TARGETS DESIGNATED IN OUR OFFENSIVE PLAN, DESPITE ALL THE PREVENTIVE MEASURES AND ARRANGEMENTS SET UP BY THE ARMY TO TRY TO HALT US. OUR EXPERIENCED FIGHTERS, IN SPITE OF THE DISADVANTAGE IN FORCES AND ARMS, HAVE FULFILLED OUR GOALS BEYOND OUR EXPECTATIONS, CARRYING OUT ONE OF THE MOST GLORIOUS MILITARY BATTLES IN THE HISTORY OF THE PEOPLE'S WAR. IN UNDER 15 HOURS, WE GAINED CONTROL OVER STRATEGIC TERRITORIES, WIPED OUT DOZENS OF ENEMY TROOPS, TOOK PRISONERS, RECOVERED WEAPONS, AND DESTROYED ARMORED VEHICLES AND AIRPLANES.</p><p>AFTER 4 CONTINUOUS DAYS OF FIGHTING, OUR FORCES HAVE REJECTED ALL COUNTERATTACKS BY THE ENEMY AND HAVE GAINED NEW POSITIONS. THOUSANDS OF RESIDENTS OF THE CITIES HAVE STAGED POPULAR UPRISINGS TO SUPPORT OUR FORCES, WHICH HAVE BEEN AUGMENTED BY NEW FIGHTERS. FACED WITH THIS SITUATION, THE ARENA GOVERNMENT AND THE CLIQUE OF CORRUPT MILITARY OFFICERS KNOWN AS LA TANDONA WHO COMMAND THE ARMED FORCES, HAVE ORDERED CRIMINAL BOMBINGS OF THE CIVILIAN POPULATION WITH THE PURPOSE OF PUTTING DOWN THE POPULAR UPRISINGS. THIS HAS BROUGHT ABOUT MORE SUPPORT FOR OUR FORCES AND REDOUBLED THE PEOPLE'S RAGE AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT LED BY CRISTIANI AND THE ARMY. A SITUATION HAS THUS COME ABOUT WHICH DEMANDS THAT OUR FORCES CARRY OUT THE DECISION TO CONTINUE THE OFFENSIVE THAT OUR FORCES AND THE PEOPLE HAVE UNLEASHED UNTIL ITS FINAL CONSEQUENCES. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>