<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0683"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0683"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0683</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0683 (GE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [REPORT] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] AT 2340 ON 11 NOVEMBER, FMLN UNITS, USING RPG-7 ROCKET LAUNCHERS, GRENADE LAUNCHERS, AND RIFLE FIRE, ATTACKED A PARATROOPER BATTALION AT THE COMALAPA AIRPORT. WE REPEAT, THE COMALAPA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT WAS ATTACKED AT MIDNIGHT. WE ATTACKED A PARATROOPER BATTALION THAT WAS GUARDING THE COMALAPA AIRPORT; WE USED RPG-7 ROCKET LAUNCHERS, GRENADE LAUNCHERS, AND RIFLE FIRE. WE ATTACKED AIRCRAFT BOTH INSIDE AND OUTSIDE THE HANGAR.</p><p>THE ATTACK AGAINST THE BRACAMONTE BATTALION, USING 81-MM MORTARS, PROVOKED A FIRE INSIDE BRACAMONTE BATTALION INSTALLATIONS. ATTENTION, THE REPORT FROM COMALAPA STATES THAT THREE HELICOPTERS WERE COMPLETELY DESTROYED, ONE OR TWO SMALL PLANES DESTROYED, AND TWO HANGARS AND THE AIRCRAFT INSIDE THEM PARTIALLY DESTROYED.</p><p>THE REPORT STATES THERE WERE NUMEROUS CASUALTIES AT THE COMALAPA AIRPORT, INCLUDING AIR FORCE PILOTS. IN SUM, THREE HELICOPTERS AND ONE OR TWO SMALL PLANES WERE DESTROYED AT COMALAPA AIRPORT. AS OF NOW, A TOTAL OF FOUR HELICOPTERS AND ONE SMALL PLANE HAVE BEEN DESTROYED.</p><p>AS REPORTED EARLIER, AN HELICOPTER WAS DOWNED IN SAN MIGUEL AND FELL OVER THE PAN-AMERICAN HIGHWAY. THE REPORT STATES THAT AT 0630 [1230 GMT] TODAY, FMLN UNITS DOWNED AN HELICOPTER AT THE 15 SEPTEMBER NEIGHBORHOOD IN SAN MIGUEL; IT FELL ON THE PAN-AMERICAN HIGHWAY. THIS CONFIRMS OUR EARLIER REPORT.</p><p>ATTENTION, HERE IS A REPORT FROM THE CAPITAL SAN SALVADOR: OUR COMBATANTS IN THE CAPITAL REPORT THAT THEY HAVE BESIEGED THE AREA BETWEEN THE INTERSECTION OF THE NORTHERN HIGHWAY AND NORTH 5TH AVENUE AND THE 1ST IFANTRY BRIGADE.[AS HEARD] OUR FORCES HAVE OCCUPIED POSITIONS IN THAT AREA AND NORTHERN AVENUE NEAR PANAMA STREET. THEY HAVE ATTACKED ALL POSITIONS IN THE NORTHERN AREA.</p><p>ATTENTION, ATTENTION: IN THE CAPITAL, IN THE AREA ADJACENT TO THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE, WE RECOVERED RIFLES, MACHINEGUNS, GRENADES, AND OTHER MATERIEL. ATTENTION, ATTENTION: THERE ARE ALSO REPORTS OF VERY SUCCESSFUL ATTACKS IN ESCALON NEIGHBORHOOD. OUR COMRADES ARE REPORTING FROM THE CAPITAL THAT A NATIONAL POLICE TRUCK, WHICH WAS LEAVING THE MONSERRAT GARRISON, WAS AMBUSHED. WE ARE TOLD THAT THIS AMBUSHED TRUCK WAS GOING TO REINFORCE STAFF INSTALLATIONS IN ARCE NEIGHBORHOOD.</p></body></html>