<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0595"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0595"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0595</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0595 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 20 OCT 89 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHAIRMAN OF THE ARMED FORCES JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF, TODAY SAID THAT THE WEAPONS CONFISCATED BY HONDURAN TROOPS WERE SENT FROM NICARAGUA AND INTENDED FOR THE URBAN PONCE REFERRED TO THE RECENT SEIZURE OF WEAPONS FROM A VAN WITH A SALVADORAN LICENSE PLATE WHICH WERE SENT BY THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT VIA COSTA RICA TO THE FMLN. HE SAID THAT THE ARSENAL INCLUDED A LARGE QUANTITY OF EXPLOSIVES AND HIGH CALIBER WEAPONS THAT WERE HIDDEN IN SECRET COMPARTMENTS OF THE VAN, WHICH WAS CARRYING FURNITURE FOR A SALVADORAN FAMILY.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PONCE] THIS DEMONSTRATES ONCE MORE THAT THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT CONTINUES SUPPORTING THE FMLN STRUGGLE AND IS DIRECTLY SUPPORTING THE URBAN COMMANDOS, WHICH ARE THE FMLN DEATH SQUADS IN THIS CITY. THESE MANUALS HAVE BEEN PREPARED IN NICARAGUA AND BEAR THE FMLN LETTERHEAD. THEY ARE INTENDED FOR THE URBAN COMMANDOS AND INCLUDE TACTICAL INSTRUCTIONS AS WELL AS DIRECTIONS ON HOW TO USE ARMS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>IN ADDITION, COL PONCE SHOWED A DOCUMENT THAT WAS SEIZED AT EL TIGRE HILL, USULUTAN DEPARTMENT, ON 30 JULY, DEALING WITH MILITARY THEORY AND URBAN WAR WHICH, HE SAID, THE FMLN IS CARRYING OUT IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PONCE] THE DOCUMENT SAYS THE FOLLOWING IN ONE OF ITS PARAGRAPHS: THE WAR AGAINST THE AUTHORITIES MUST BE TOTAL AND MUST REACH THEIR PROPERTIES, FAMILIES, HOMES, WORK PLACES, AND VACATION RETREATS. WE MUST ALWAYS GIVE PRIORITY TO EXECUTIONS, BUT HARASSMENT, PSYCHOLOGICAL WARFARE, ETC, ARE ALSO PART OF THIS POLICY AND MAY BE CARRIED OUT BY THE LESS EXPERIENCED ECHELONS TO DEVELOP EXPERIENCE IN USING WEAPONS. THIS SHOWS THAT THE CLAIM THAT WAS MADE BY THE TERRORIST RINGLEADERS IN COSTA RICA IS NOT VALID. IT IS NOT TRUE THAT THEY DISAGREE WITH THIS LINE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>ACCORDING TO PONCE'S STATEMENTS, THE ACTIONS UNCOVERED BY MILITARY INTELLIGENCE ARE TOTALLY AT VARIANCE WITH THE TOPICS DISCUSSED AT THE NEGOTIATING TABLES IN MEXICO AND COSTA RICA, BECAUSE THEY TALK ABOUT REACHING PEACE BUT THEIR ACTIONS SHOW THE CONTRARY.</p></body></html>