<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0197"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0197"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0197</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0197 (ADS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 3 MAY 89 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] THE UP TO DATE NEWS TEAM WAS ATTACKED TODAY BY U.S. EMBASSY EMPLOYEES AS THE NEWSMEN WERE COVERING A REPORT ON THE EXPLOSION OF TWO BOMBS IN A BUILDING BELONGING TO THE EMBASSY. THE EXPLOSION OCCURRED AT A U.S. EMBASSY WAREHOUSE LOCATED ON SAN ANTONIO ABAD STREET, NEAR THE CENTRAL ELECTORAL COUNCIL COMPLEX.</p><p>[REPORTER] TONIGHT, AT APPROXIMATELY 1940, A BOMB WENT OFF AT A U.S. EMBASSY WAREHOUSE NEAR THE CENTRAL ELECTORAL COUNCIL COMPLEX ON SAN ANTONIO ABAD STREET IN NORTHWEST SAN SALVADOR. THE UP TO DATE NEWS TEAM, WHICH WAS ON THE SCENE SHORTLY AFTER THE INCIDENT, WAS SHOOTING VIDEO FOOTAGE OF THE EXTENSIVE DAMAGE DONE BY THE BOMBS WHEN U.S. EMBASSY EMPLOYEES ATTACKED THE CAMERAMAN AND HIS ASSISTANT. THE VIDEO EQUIPMENT WAS DAMAGED. HERE IS WHAT HAPPENED:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER] [PASSAGE INDISTINCT]</p><p>[CAMARAMAN] WE DO NOT DESERVE TO BE MISTREATED LIKE THIS.</p><p>[UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER] WE ARE NOT MISTREATING YOU. GET OUT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>[REPORTER] AT THIS POINT, THE CAMERA BELONGING TO THE UP TO DATE NEWS TEAM WAS THROWN ON THE FLOOR. SO FAR, NO GROUP HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACK ON THE U.S. EMBASSY WAREHOUSE. SHORTLY AFTER THE EXPLOSION, A SEARCH FOR THE PERPETRATORS OF THE BOMBING WAS BEGUN.</p></body></html>