<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0301"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0301"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADROR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0301</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0301 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>SAN SALVADROR, 19 JUL 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [TEXT] SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI HAS GIVEN ASSURANCES THAT THERE WILL BE NO MILITARY INTERVENTION AT THE UNIVERSITY OF EL SALVADOR CAMPUS, DESPITE THE VIOLENT INCIDENTS THAT HAVE OCCURRED OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS. THESE INCIDENTS HAVE NOT RESULTED IN ANY DEATHS, ALTHOUGH SEVERAL PEOPLE HAVE BEEN INJURED. THE PRESIDENT SAID THAT THE INCIDENTS AT THE UNIVERSITY ARE PART OF A BROADER PLAN TO PROVOKE THE 1ST BRIGADE TROOPS PATROLLING THE AREA. HOWEVER, THE PRESIDENT ADDED, THERE WILL BE NO MILITARY INTERVENTION AT THE UNIVERSITY, EVEN IF THE SOLDIERS WHO ARE SURROUNDING THE CAMPUS ARE PROVOKED.</p><p>TWO STUDENTS WHO WERE ARRESTED LAST WEEK AND WHO WERE PRESENTED BY THE TREASURY POLICE HAVE ADMITTED THEIR PARTICIPATION IN LEFTIST, DESTABILIZING GROUPS' ACTIVITIES. ONE OF THE STUDENTS ARRESTED IS LUIS OSVALDO SANDOVAL, A FIFTH - GRADE STUDENT AT THE JOSE MATIAS SALGADO SCHOOL, WHO ADMITTED BEING A MEMBER OF THE BREAD, LAND, WORK, AND FREEDOM MOVEMENT AND THAT HE HAS PARTICIPATED IN ACTIVITIES SUCH AS WRITING MESSAGES AND PASTING PROPAGANDA ON WALLS AND BURNING VEHICLES.</p><p>THE SECOND STUDENT ARRESTED IS RAMON PARADA GARCIA, A 2D - YEAR STUDENT AT THE (ALFREDO BAN FERRER NATIONAL INSTITUTE), WHO SAID THAT HE IS A MEMBER OF THE ERP [PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY ARMY]. THE TWO YOUTHS SAID THAT THEY JOINED THESE ORGANIZATIONS BECAUSE THEY ARE PAID ON A MONTHLY BASIS, EXPLAINING THAT THEIR FAMILIES HAVE NO OTHER SOURCE OF INCOME. THE TREASURY POLICE SAID THAT THE ARRESTED STUDENTS HAVE REQUESTED THE PROTECTION OF THAT SECURITY FORCE.</p></body></html>