<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0997"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0997"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CARACAS (VENEZUELA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0997</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0997 (SRI)</p><p>CARACAS (VENEZUELA), 15 DEC 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] THE COLOMBIAN 19 APRIL MOVEMENT [M-19] HAS ASKED VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ FOR POLITICAL SUPPORT TO SECURE COMPLIANCE WITH THE AGREEMENTS SIGNED BETWEEN THE GUERRILLAS AND THE GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO.</p><p>EVERTH BUSTAMANTE, THE M-19'S INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS SECRETARY, SAID TODAY IN CARACAS THAT ON 14 DECEMBER HE INFORMED PEREZ ABOUT THE GRAVE POLITICAL CRISIS WHICH HAD EXPLODED IN HIS COUNTRY IN RECENT DAYS.</p><p>THE RESIGNATION OF THE PRESIDENTS OF COLOMBIA'S TWO LARGEST POLITICAL PARTIES, AS WELL AS THE COLOMBIAN CONGRESS' POSITION IN FAVOR OF SUBMITTING TO A REFERENDUM THE RULING ON EXTRADITING DRUG TRAFFICKING SUSPECTS, IN DEFIANCE OF THE GOVERNMENT'S POSITION, HAS CREATED A POLITICAL VACUUM IN THE COUNTRY AND, BUSTAMANTE SAID, THE GOVERNMENT NO LONGER HAS A MONOPOLY OF POWER. THIS SITUATION, HE ADDED, CREATES DOUBTS ABOUT COMPLIANCE WITH THE AGREEMENT SIGNED IN NOVEMBER 1988 [AS RECEIVED] BY THE M-19 AND THE GOVERNMENT. IN LINE WITH THIS AGREEMENT, THE REBELS WOULD SURRENDER THEIR WEAPONS.</p><p>IN RECENT MONTHS THE VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT HAS MET ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS WITH REPRESENTATIVES OF THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT AND THE M-19 AND HAS PROPOSED THAT THE SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL RECEIVE THE ARMS OF THIS GUERRILLA ORGANIZATION WHICH WANTS TO JOIN COLOMBIA'S POLITICAL LIFE.</p><p>BUSTAMANTE SAID THAT THE SITUATION THAT HAS EMERGED HAS IMPOSED A DELAY IN THE SURRENDERING THE WEAPONS WHICH HAD BEEN SCHEDULED FOR 19 DECEMBER. HE DID NOT GIVE A NEW DATE FOR THIS ACTION, BUT HE DID NOT DISCARD EITHER THE POSSIBILITY THAT IT COULD BE IN JANUARY OF NEXT YEAR.</p><p>AN ACUTE POLITICAL CONFRONTATION EXPLODED IN COLOMBIA WHEN THE COLOMBIA CONGRESS DECIDED, AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT'S WILL, TO SUBMIT TO A REFERENDUM THE PRACTICE OF EXTRADITING DRUG TRAFFICKING SUSPECTS TO THE UNITED STATES SO THAT THEY MAY BE TRIED THERE.</p><p>BUSTAMANTE NOTED: THIS MAKES IT EVIDENT THAT MANY LEGISLATORS SUPPORT THE DEMANDS OF THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS. BUSTAMANTE ADMITTED, HOWEVER, THAT THESE EXTRADITIONS VIOLATE COLOMBIA'S CONSTITUTION.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE M-19 LEADER, "THE ONLY WAY" OF OVERCOMING THE CURRENT POLITICAL CRISIS IS TO POSTPONE THE ELECTIONS SCHEDULED TO TAKE PLACE NEXT YEAR AND TO CONVOKE A CONSTITUENT NATIONAL ASSEMBLY AND A REFERENDUM TO DECIDE ON CONSTITUTIONAL REFORMS.</p><p>THESE TWO POINTS FORM PART OF THE AGREEMENT SIGNED IN NOVEMBER 1988 [AS RECEIVED] BY THE M-19 AND THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>BUSTAMANTE, WHO LEAVES TOMORROW FOR MEXICO CITY AND LONDON, CALLED ON THE COLOMBIAN GUERRILLA GROUPS TO SURRENDER THEIR WEAPONS IF THE GOVERNMENT CONVOKES A CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY.</p></body></html>