<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0537"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0537"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0537</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0537 (UMASS)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 29 SEP 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] POLICE SOURCES REPORTED TODAY THAT A SPANIARD, A FRENCHMAN, AND AN ITALIAN, KIDNAPPED IN TECUN UMAN ON 27 SEPTEMBER, HAVE BEEN RELEASED WITHIN THE PAST FEW HOURS.</p><p>SPANIARD JOSE MARIA MARTINEZ, FRENCHMAN ROBERTO LISANDY, AND ITALIAN DINO ROSSY, WHO WERE STAYING AT A TECUN UMAN HOTEL, WERE KIDNAPPED BY ARMED MEN WHO TOOK THEM TO AN UNKNOWN PLACE.</p><p>AFTER THEY WERE RELEASED, THE THREE EUROPEANS WENT TO THE REGIONAL POLICE STATION AND GAVE A FULL ACCOUNT OF THEIR EXPERIENCE WITH THE KIDNAPPERS.</p><p>MARTINEZ TOLD THE POLICE THAT THE KIDNAPPERS HELD THEM IN A DARK ROOM AND QUESTIONED THEM.</p><p>THE THREE MEN WERE TAKEN TO A MEDICAL CENTER AFTER THEIR RELEASE AND, ACCORDING TO THE MEDICAL REPORT, SUFFERED NO WOUNDS.</p><p>OFFICIALS REPORTED THAT MARTINEZ AND LISANDY DO BUSINESS IN TECUN UMAN AND HAVE BEEN LIVING THERE FOR THE PAST 9 MONTHS. ROSSY WAS ENJOYING HIS VACATION HERE, WHEN HE WAS KIDNAPPED.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE POLICE, THE PERSONS WHO KIDNAPPED THE THREE MEN GOT THEM DRUNK BEFORE RELEASING THEM SO THAT THEY WOULD LOSE TRACK OF TIME AND BE UNABLE TO IDENTIFY WHERE THEY HAD BEEN HELD CAPTIVE.</p></body></html>