<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0653"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0653"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="PANAMA CITY (PANAMA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0653</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0653 (GE)</p><p>PANAMA CITY (PANAMA), 8 NOV 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN ARMY SAID TODAY THAT TWO "ATTACKERS" HAD LOST THEIR LIVES WHEN THEY CONFRONTED SOLDIERS AFTER HAVING "ROBBED AND RAPED" THE OWNER OF A BUSINESS IN A CITY OF WESTERN EL SALVADOR. OPPOSITION SOURCES, HOWEVER, REJECTED THIS ACCOUNT AND DESCRIBED THE INCIDENT AS "MURDER."</p><p>JUAN JOSE MARTELL, LEADER OF THE SOCIAL CHRISTIAN PEOPLE'S MOVEMENT (MPSC, OPPOSITION), REJECTED THE MILITARY VERSION AND ACCUSED THE ARMY OF "MURDERING" PARTY LEADER CECILIO RIVERA AND TWO OTHER PARTY SUPPORTERS.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE SAID THAT RIVERA AND APOLINARIO ALFARO -- THE THIRD PERSON WAS NOT MENTIONED -- LOST THEIR LIVES WHEN THEY CONFRONTED, ALONG WITH FOUR OTHER MEN, TROOPS OF MILITARY DETACHMENT NO. 6, IN SONSONATE, 65 KM WEST OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>THE MILITARY REPORT ADDED THAT THE "CRIMINALS" HAD ROBBED A SMALL SHOP, WHOSE OWNER, MARIA TERESA LOPEZ, HAD BEEN "RAPED" BY THE ATTACKERS.</p><p>MARTELL SAID THAT THE BODIES OF THE [MPSC] MEMBERS WERE FOUND LAST NIGHT AT THE SONSONATE CEMETERY ALONG WITH A SIGN THAT READ: "BECAUSE THEY BETRAYED THE FATHERLAND."</p><p>"WE HAVE EVIDENCE THAT THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR RIVERA'S MURDER AND THE TWO OTHER [MPSC] SUPPORTERS ARE SOLDIERS OF MILITARY DETACHMENT NO. 6," MARTELL STRESSED.</p><p>THE [MPSC] IS PART OF THE LEFTIST DEMOCRATIC CONVERGENCE COALITION, WHICH TOOK PART IN THE 19 MARCH PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS.</p><p>IN ANOTHER TURN OF EVENTS, THE ARMY HAS ACCUSED THE GUERRILLAS OF KIDNAPPING APPROXIMATELY 30 PEASANTS IN CUSCATLAN AND SANTA ANA DEPARTMENTS, LOCATED TO THE NORTH AND WEST OF SAN SALVADOR, RESPECTIVELY.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE REBELS STEPPED-UP THEIR SABOTAGE AGAINST THE ELECTRICAL POWER GRID BY DESTROYING TWO HIGH-VOLTAGE PYLONS AND SEVEN POWER POLES IN GUAZAPA, CHALATENANGO, AND ILOBASCO, LOCATEDE NORTH AND EAST OF SAN SALVADOR.</p></body></html>