<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0943"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0943"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0943</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0943 (SRI)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 7 DEC 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION. PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION. FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] TROOPS STARTED TO ATTACK ENEMY POSITIONS IN SAN SALVADOR AT 2200 ON 6 DECEMBER, ENTERING THE CITY FROM THE NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, AND WEST.</p><p>ATTENTION. REPORT FROM SOYAPANGO, SAN SALVADOR. FMLN ANTIAIRCRAFT UNITS HAVE DOWNED AN ARMED FORCES HELICOPTER GUNSHIP DURING THE BATTLES THAT HAVE BEEN ONGOING IN SOYPANGO. WE AWAIT THE OFFICIAL MILITARY REPORT ON THIS ACTION IN SAN SALVADOR. WE ARE NO LONGER ONLY DOWNING AIRPLANES AND HELICOPTERS IN THE INTERIOR OF THE COUNTRY. THOUSANDS OF SAN SALVADOR RESIDENTS WERE ABLE TO SEE THE DOWNING OF A HELICOPTER GUNSHIP IN THE METROPOLITAN AREA. WE DOWNED A HELICOPTER GUNSHIP THAT WAS SHOOTING AT THE CIVILIAN POPULATION IN SOYAPANGO, SAN SALVADOR. WE HAD ALREADY WARNED [AIR FORCE GENERAL JUAN RAFAEL] BUSTILLO. WE ARE NOT GOING TO ALLOW WOMEN, CHILDREN, AND RESIDENTS OF SAN SALVADOR TO BE BOMBED AGAIN. WE ARE NOT GOING TO ALLOW MORE GENOCIDIAL ACTIONS IN SAN SALVADOR. ONCE AND FOR ALL, WE REAFFIRM TO THE FASCIST COMMAND STAFF THAT WE ARE NOT GOING TO ALLOW MORE BOMBING IN SAN SALVADOR. STARTING RIGHT NOW, GENTLEMEN, THE PEOPLE FORBID THAT YOU BOMB THE CITY. WE FORBID YOU TO DO SO, AND FOR THAT PURPOSE WE WILL DOWN YOUR AIRPLANES AND HELICOPTERS. OUR PEOPLE KNOW THAT AN A-37 AIRCRAFT WAS DOWNED IN SAN MIGUEL, A HELICOPTER WAS DOWNED IN SAN MIGUEL AT THE BEGINNING OF THE OFFENSIVE, A PUSH-PULL PLANE WAS DOWNED IN USULUTAN, AND NOW THIS HELICOPTER IN SOYAPANGO. WE AWAIT A REPORT ON THE POSSIBLE DEATH OF THE HELICOPTER'S CREW. WE AWAIT AN OFFICIAL REPORT FROM OUR COMRADES IN SOYAPANGO.</p><p>MEANWHILE, WE ALSO HAVE REPORTS THAT FIGHTING CONTINUES AT THIS TIME IN THE NORTHEASTERN AREA OF SAN SALVADOR. WE AWAIT AN OFFICIAL REPORT ON THE NUMBER OF CASUALTIES THAT HAVE BEEN INFLICTED ON THE ENEMY. OUR MEN HAVE INFLICTED MANY CASUALTIES ON SOLDIERS FROM THE ATCATL BATTALION, BELLOSO BATTALION, PARATROOPERS BATTALION, NATIONAL POLICE, TREASURY POLICE, 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE, SONSONATE MILITARY DETACHMENT NO 6, AND 5TH INFANTRY BRIGADE DURING THE CLASHES THAT HAVE TAKEN PLACE SINCE LAST NIGHT.</p></body></html>