<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0788"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0788"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="PANAMA CITY (PANAMA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0788</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0788 (PRC)</p><p>PANAMA CITY (PANAMA), 17 NOV 89 (LA REPUBLICA) -- [TEXT] PRD [DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTIONARY PARTY] COMMUNIQUE:</p><p>TWENTY YEARS AFTER THE LATIN AMERICAN CHURCH MET IN MEDELLIN AND DECIDED TO WORK FOR THE NEEDY, DEATH SQUADS IN EL SALVADOR HAVE MURDERED IGNACIO ELLACURIA, A PRIEST, TEACHER, AND A SOCIAL FIGHTER, ALONG WITH SEVEN OTHER PRIESTS AND FAITHFUL. A WAR THAT BEGAN WITH THE MARTYRDOM OF ARCHBISHOP OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO IS NOW TAKING THE LIVES OF HUNDREDS OF VICTIMS WHO ARE KILLED IN INDISCRIMINATE BOMBINGS AND ATTACKS ON THE POPULATION.</p><p>THE CRIME COMMITTED TODAY WAS SPONSORED BY THE SAME ONES WHO ARE NOW PLANNING GENERAL MANUEL ANTONIO NORIEGA'S MURDER. THERE IS ONLY A DIFFERENCE OF TIME AND PLACE. INSTEAD OF BOMBING DENSELY POPULATED NEIGHBORHOODS, THESE PEOPLE ARE RESORTING TO ATTACKS ON CERTAIN FIGURES AND LEADERS.</p><p>BECAUSE OF THE ENORMOUS SIZE OF THE LATIN AMERICAN CRISIS, IT IS EVIDENT THAT THE CHURCH CANNOT ESCAPE THE DEMAND THAT MODERN TIMES IMPOSE ON ALL GROUPS OF DECIDING WHETHER TO BE ON THE SIDE OF PATRIOTIC AND LIBERTARIAN CAUSES OR TO BECOME ACCOMPLICES OF LOCAL AND FOREIGN OPPRESSORS.</p><p>LIKE MSGR ROMERO, FATHER ELLACURIA AND HIS COMPANIONS IN MARTYRDOM REPRESENT THE CHURCH THAT IS BORN FROM THE HOMELAND AND THAT STRUGGLES ALONG WITH THE PEOPLE. PANAMANIAN GENERAL OMAR TORRIJOS ALSO DECIDED TO WORK ALONG WITH THE PEOPLE FROM INSIDE THE ARMED FORCES. THESE MARTYRS DESERVE THE SAME SOLIDARITY THEY GAVE TO THE LATIN AMERICAN CAUSE OF NATIONAL LIBERATION, BECAUSE THEY CHALLENGED THE OLIGARCHY, IMPERIALISM, AND EVEN THE REACTIONARY GROUPS OF THEIR OWN CHURCH.</p><p>NOW, WHEN ALL THE WEIGHT OF THE LATIN AMERICAN CRISIS AND FOREIGN AGGRESSION FALLS UPON THE SALVADORAN AND PANAMANIAN PEOPLES; NOW THAT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ARE MASSIVELY REPRESSED; AND NOW THAT THE GOVERNMENT IN WASHINGTON ORDERS THE CIA TO ATTACK GEN NORIEGA, THOSE WHO STRUGGLE IN EL SALVADOR AND THOSE WHO PATRIOTICALLY RESIST ARE IN FACT DOING SO FOR ALL OF LATIN AMERICA.</p><p>THUS, IGNACIO ELLACURIA'S AND HIS PARTNERS' SACRIFICE, AS WELL AS THE PREVIOUS SACRIFICE OF MSGR ROMERO AND THAT OF GEN NORIEGA, WILL BEAR FRUITS OF LIBERATION, JUSTICE, AND SOVEREIGNTY.</p><p>THESE FRUITS WILL BE PLENTIFUL AND MORE DELICIOUS IF ALL THOSE WHO HAVE BEEN NEXT TO AND LEARNED FROM THESE PEOPLE CONTINUE STRUGGLING WITH THEIR EXAMPLE IN MIND. THE SACRIFICE THEY HAVE MADE FOR ALL OF US DESERVES PRAISE AND SOLIDARITY. WE OFFER THEM THAT PRAISE AND SOLIDARITY BY REAFFIRMING OUR COMMITMENT TO WORK AND STRUGGLE FOR THE DEFINITIVE LIBERATION OF OUR OWN PEOPLE.</p><p>[SIGNED] CARLOS DUQUE, PRESIDENT</p><p>NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE</p><p>DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTIONARY PARTY</p><p>PANAMA, 16 NOVEMBER 1989</p></body></html>