<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1085"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1085"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1085</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1085 (UNISYS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 1 FEB 90 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] COL GUILLERMO ALFREDO BENAVIDES, PRIMARY PERSON IMPLICATED IN THE MURDER OF SIX JESUIT PRIESTS AND THEIR TWO EMPLOYEES, WAS OFFICIALLY REMOVED TODAY FROM HIS POST AS DIRECTOR OF THE SALVADORAN ARMY MILITARY SCHOOL.</p><p>BENAVIDES' REPLACEMENT WAS PART OF A HIGH-LEVEL REORGANIZATION IN THE ARMED FORCES WHICH, ACCORDING TO WESTERN DIPLOMATIC SOURCES, REFLECTS AN INTENTION TO MAKE GRADUAL CHANGES THROUGHOUT THE YEAR,</p><p>BENAVIDES, WHO IS ACCUSED OF HAVING GIVEN THE ORDER TO KILL THE JESUITS (FIVE SPANIARDS AND ONE SALVADORAN), WILL BE REPLACED AS DIRECTOR OF THE MILITARY SCHOOL BY COL RICARDO ALFONSO CASANOVA, WHO WAS FORMERLY COMMANDER OF THE 6TH INFANTRY BRIGADE, BASED IN THE EASTERN USULUTAN DEPARTMENT.</p><p>COL HERIBERTO HERNANDEZ, WHO TO DATE HAS BEEN DIRECTOR OF THE TREASURY POLICE, WILL BE TRANSFERRED TO USULUTAN, A DEPARTMENT WHERE GUERRILLAS ARE CONSTANTLY ACTIVE. HERNANDEZ WILL BE REPLACED BY COL CIRO LOPEZ ROQUE.</p><p>IN ADDITION TO THE MILITARY SCHOOL AND THE TREASURY POLICE, THE CHANGES PRIMARILY AFFECT COMMANDERS IN THE AREAS OF PERSISTENT GUERRILLA ACTIVITY, SUCH AS USULUTAN AND CHALATENANGO, AND THE ARCE BATTALION, AN ELITE UNIT TO COMBAT THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN), WHICH IS BASED IN THE EASTERN DEPARTMENT OF SAN MIGUEL.</p><p>THESE TRANSFERS AND APPOINTMENTS AFFECT A TOTAL OF 12 COLONELS AND, ALTHOUGH THE ARMED FORCES DESCRIBED THEM TODAY AS "ROUTINE CHANGES," DIPLOMATIC SOURCES FEEL THAT THEY ARE DESIGNED TO SEEK GREATER EFFICIENCY IN MILITARY ACTION. THE SOURCES FEEL THAT MORE CHANGES WILL BE MADE THROUGHOUT THIS YEAR.</p><p>THE FIRST RESHUFFLING IN THE ARMED FORCES FOR 1990 WAS ANNOUNCED ON 1 JANUARY, THAT IS, SHORTLY AFTER THE FMLN OFFENSIVE, THE SCALE OF WHICH SURPRISED EVEN THE ARMY ITSELF, AS MILITARY SOURCES ADMITTED.</p><p>ON THAT DATE, GENERAL RAFAEL BUSTILLO, CHIEF OF THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES AND ONE OF THE OFFICERS MOST OPENLY OPPOSED TO DIALOGUE WITH THE FMLN, WAS RELIEVED OF HIS DUTIES AND SENT TO EUROPE AS A MILITARY ATTACHE.</p><p>REPLACED WITH BUSTILLO WERE THE CHIEFS OF THE MILITARY DETACHMENTS OF CUSCATLAN AND LA UNION, IN THE CENTRAL AND EASTERN PARTS OF THE COUNTRY, RESPECTIVELY, AND THE CHIEF OF ARMY INTELLIGENCE.</p></body></html>