<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0546"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0546"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0546</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0546 (UMASS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 5 OCT 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] SOME 80 MEMBERS AND SUPPORTERS OF THE FEDERATION OF COMMITTEES OF MOTHERS OF POLITICAL PRISONERS (FECMAFAN) TODAY "FORCIBLY" OCCUPIED THE COSTA RICAN EMBASSY IN SAN SALVADOR TO DENOUNCE "THE REPRESSION OF THE FASCIST GOVERNMENT" OF EL SALVADOR.</p><p>COSTA RICAN AMBASSADOR JESUS FERNANDEZ, WHO CONSIDERS HIMSELF A HOSTAGE, SAID THAT THE EMBASSY WAS "TAKEN OVER BY FORCE BY ARMED INDIVIDUALS" WHILE ALL OF ITS PERSONNEL AND MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WERE INSIDE THE BUILDING.</p><p>A MEMBER OF THE FECMAFAN TOLD NEWSMEN THAT "THE PURPOSE OF THIS OCCUPATION IS TO DENOUNCE BEFORE THE GOVERNMENT OF NOBEL PEACE PRIZE WINNER OSCAR ARIAS AND BEFORE THE OTHER GOVERNMENTS OF THE WORLD, THE REPRESSION TO WHICH THE PEOPLE'S ORGANIZATIONS IN EL SALVADOR ARE BEING SUBJECTED."</p><p>THE FECMAFAN MEMBER ADDED THAT THE OCCUPATION IS ALSO BEING USED TO REACH THESE GOVERNMENTS TO ASK THEM TO APPLY PRESSURE ON SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI TO GET HIM TO ENSURE RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS.</p><p>AMBASSADOR FERNANDEZ SAID: "THERE IS NO REASON FOR THIS OCCUPATION, BECAUSE I HAVE ALWAYS MET WITH ALL SECTORS. THIS IS HARDLY THE TREATMENT THAT SHOULD BE GIVEN TO A GOVERNMENT THAT HAS SHOWN EXTREME CONCERN IN SEEKING A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION TO THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT."</p><p>IN ADDITION TO AMBASSADOR FERNANDEZ, CONSUL HUMBERTO MURILLO, COUNSELOR CARLOTA DE LOPEZ, AND FIRST SECRETARY LUIS DE ANDA ARE INSIDE THE 54-SQUARE-METER OFFICE, AS WELL AS 10 PERSONS WHO WERE SEEKING VISAS.</p><p>DE ANDA TOLD ACAN-EFE THAT HE WAS HIT ON THE LEFT HAND WHEN THE OCCUPIERS TRIED TO OPEN HIS DESK DRAWER.</p><p>THE DOORS TO THE EMBASSY, WHICH IS IN A 10-STORY BUILDING IN WESTERN SAN SALVADOR, ARE CLOSED, AND THE OFFICES ARE OCCUPIED BY WOMEN WITH WHITE SCARVES ON THEIR HEADS AND YOUTHS WHOSE FACES ARE COVERED WITH SCARVES AND GLASSES. FECMAFAN MEMBERS, WHO CLAIM THAT THEY ARE NOT CARRYING WEAPONS, ARE GUARDING THE ELEVATOR AND THE DOORS LEADING TO THE EMBASSY.</p><p>HOWEVER, CONSUL MURILLO SAID THAT HE SAW SEVERAL YOUTHS ARMED WITH .38-CALIBER REVOLVERS AND EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.</p><p>ACCORDING TO A FECMAFAN MEMBER, OVER THE PAST 3 MONTHS, SOME 150 PERSONS HAVE BEEN KILLED AND MORE THAN 500 HAVE BEEN ARRESTED OR MADE TO DISAPPEAR.</p><p>ONE OF THE LEADERS OF THE GROUP SAID: "WE ARE PROTESTING THE LIMITATION OF FREEDOMS IN EL SALVADOR. IF WE TAKE TO THE STREETS TO PROTEST WE ARE ARRESTED."</p><p>THE AMBASSADOR SAID THAT HE HAS NOT BEEN ABLE TO GET IN TOUCH WITH HIS GOVERNMENT, BECAUSE "I AM BEING PREVENTED FROM MAKING PHONE CALLS AND FROM LEAVING THE EMBASSY."</p><p>THE OCCUPIERS ALLOWED FIVE PEOPLE, INCLUDING A PREGNANT WOMAN, TO LEAVE THE PREMISES AND SAID THAT THEY PLANNED TO STAY IN THE EMBASSY INDEFINITELY.</p></body></html>