<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1247"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1247"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1247</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1247 (BOEING)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 23 APR 90 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH CALLEJAS BY MODERATOR VALLADARES AND REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [CALLEJAS] WHAT I HAVE TO SAY THIS EVENING IS THAT WE MADE A CORRECT DECISION. THE ARMED FORCES' BUDGET WAS REDUCED BY 10 PERCENT; TO ASK FOR A GREATER REDUCTION IS NOT TO KNOW OUR COUNTRY'S REALITY AND TO DESTROY THE ARMED FORCES. TO REDUCE THE HONDURAN ARMED FORCES' BUDGET BY 50 PERCENT IS TANTAMOUNT TO DISMANTLING IT, AND I FOR ONE AM NOT WILLING TO MAKE THAT DECISION. I AGREED TO TAKE THE CORRECT PATH AT THE RIGHT MOMENT; TO REDIRECT THE HONDURAN ARMED FORCES AND TO SEE THEY ALSO ACT WITH AUSTERITY AND IN THE BEST NATIONAL INTEREST.</p><p>IT IS EASY TO CRITICIZE AND SAY THINGS, BUT WHEN THESE PEOPLE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO RESOLVE THIS, NOTHING WAS DONE. I HAVE ACTED.</p><p>[VALLADARES] GERMAN REYES OF ACAN-EFE.</p><p>[REYES] GOOD EVENING. BEFORE ANYTHING ELSE I THINK WE SHOULD APOLOGIZE TO THE HOUSEWIVES FOR HAVING RUINED THEIR SOAP OPERA. REGARDING THE GREEN BATTALIONS YOU MENTIONED, MR. PRESIDENT, WHICH ARE GOING TO BE INSTALLED IN YAMALES -- WHERE THEY SHOULD HAVE BEEN BEFORE THE CONTRAS ENTERED -- HOW ARE THE ONUCA [UNITED NATIONS OBSERVER GROUP IN CENTRAL AMERICA] OFFICERS GOING TO VERIFY THAT THE CONTRA WITHDRAWAL FROM HONDURAN TERRITORY?</p><p>[CALLEJAS] THERE IS NO PROBLEM. THE YAMALES CAMP IS INSIDE HONDURAN TERRITORY. THERE ARE MECHANISMS THAT ALLOW ONUCA AND CIAV [INTERNATIONAL COMMISSION FOR SUPPORT AND VERIFICATION] FORCES TO CONTROL THESE PERSONS. ONCE MORE I WOULD LIKE TO REFER TO THE POSITION YOU ARE TAKING: WHY NOT SEE THINGS POSITIVELY? INSTEAD OF SAYING WE HAD CONTRAS HERE FOR 10 YEARS, SAY THAT NOW WE DO NOT HAVE ANY. I THINK THIS IS THE TYPE OF OPTIMISM WE SHOULD IMPRESS UPON THE COUNTRY. LET US NOT COMPLAIN ABOUT YESTERDAY, INSTEAD BUILD ON TODAY'S REALITY. I AM VERY HAPPY TO BE HERE AT THIS NEWS CONFERENCE AND TO BE ABLE TO TELL MY FELLOW CITIZENS AND YOU THAT NO LONGER ARE WE TO HAVE CONTRAS IN HONDURAS -- A POSITIVE STEP. IN THIS REGARD THE GREEN BATTALIONS AND THE ARMED FORCES ARE TAKING ACTION TO ADMINISTER A TERRITORY THAT ONLY YESTERDAY WAS RELATIVELY OUT OF CONTROL OF THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>[VALLADARES] [WORDS INDISTINCT]</p><p>[REPORTER] MR. PRESIDENT, MUCH HAS BEEN SAID ABOUT THESE $247 MILLION -- IT SEEMS LIKE A LARGE SUM -- WHICH TELLS OF THE SUCCESS OF YOUR TRIP TO THE UNITED STATES. THIS, HOWEVER, IS TO BE USED TO PAY DEBTS. DO YOU KNOW OF ANY SPECIFIC AMOUNTS YOU MAY BE RECEIVING IN THE FUTURE, OR IS IT A QUESTION OF HAVING TO WAIT THERE WITH A LITTLE PAPER BAG TO THEN HAND IT OVER TO [CENTRAL BANK PRESIDENT] DON RICARDO MADURO? WHAT ARE THE RESOURCE FORECASTS AND WHAT DEFINITE INVESTMENT PLANS ARE THERE FOR THESE RESOURCES? ONE MUST ESPECIALLY TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE IMPACT THIS WILL HAVE ON THE CENTRAL BANK CURRENCY RESERVES SINCE INFLATION CAN BE A TIME BOMB. LASTLY, I WOULD LIKE TO ASK YOU IF YOU.... [CHANGES THOUGHT] APPARENTLY MY COLLEAGUE REGINA HAS AN IMPORTANT QUESTION BEFORE YOU END THE CONFERENCE WITH ME. THANK YOU, MR. PRESIDENT.</p><p>[CALLEJAS] NO PROBLEM. I WOULD CONTINUE THIS CONFERENCE ALL NIGHT LONG, ALTHOUGH I DO NOT WISH TO KEEP THE HOUSEWIVES FROM THEIR PROGRAMS. HOWEVER, EVERYTHING HAS A TIME FRAME AND OUR INTEREST IS THAT ALL REPORTERS HERE TONIGHT SHOULD HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY OF TAKING PART IN THIS NEWS CONFERENCE. GETTING BACK TO YOUR QUESTION, THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR THE ARMED FORCES WAS ESTABLISHED THIS WAY: THE 1989 BUDGET APPROVED BY CONGRESS WAS 150 MILLION LEMPIRAS.</p><p>[REPORTER] PERHAPS I DID NOT MAKE MYSELF CLEAR. I WAS REFERRING TO THE FUNDS THE GOVERNMENT WOULD HAVE AVAILABLE ONCE LOANS WERE PAID OFF WITH THESE STOPGAP LOANS.</p><p>[CALLEJAS] YOU ARE RIGHT. WE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE STOPGAP FINANCING FOR $247 MILLION. THIS STOPGAP LOAN OPENS THE PATH SO THAT FRIENDLY COUNTRIES AND BILATERAL AND MULTILATERAL FINANCIAL ORGANIZATIONS CAN RESUME THEIR LOANS TO THE COUNTRY. THESE FUNDS WILL GIVE US THE RIGHT TO DRAW ON SPECIAL IMF ACCOUNTS, FUNDS FROM SPECIAL WORLD BANK PROGRAMS SUCH AS SAL-1 AND SAL-2, OR FUNDS THAT HAVE BEEN WITHHELD FROM JAPAN AND GERMANY. THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF THESE FUNDS IS ENOUGH TO PAY THE $247 MILLION STOPGAP LOAN IN FULL AND STILL HAVE SOME CASH LEFT OVER FOR SOME OF THESE ORGANIZATIONS THAT MAY GENERATE FUNDS FOR THE COUNTRY. THE PRECISE AMOUNTS WILL BE GIVEN BY THE CENTRAL BANK PRESIDENT; HOWEVER, TO ANSWER YOUR QUESTION, THE AMOUNT OF FUNDS TO BE RECEIVED WILL BE NO LESS THAN THE AMOUNT BEING LOANED, PLUS SOME SURPLUSES FROM INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS AND FRIENDLY COUNTRIES, WHICH HAVE WITHHELD THEIR LOANS OR DONATIONS BECAUSE OF HONDURAS' INELIGIBILITY WITH THE IMF. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>