<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0571"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0571"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0571</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0571 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>LIMA, 12 OCT 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH ARGENTINE PRESIDENT CARLOS MENEM BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [EXCERPTS] [PASSAGE OMITTED] [REPORTER] WHAT IS THE POSITION OF THE GROUP OF EIGHT REGARDING THE MALVINAS ISLANDS? WILL THE GROUP OF EIGHT SUPPORT ARGENTINA IN THE DEFENSE OF ITS SOVEREIGNTY?</p><p>[MENEM] THE GROUP OF EIGHT HAS SUPPORTED ARGENTINA FOR A LONG TIME, SO HAS OAS AND THE UN. THEIR SUPPORT IS UNQUESTIONABLE.</p><p>[QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[MENEM] CUBA MAY JOIN THE OAS. WE HAVE NO OBJECTIONS TO IT. AS FOR PANAMA, IT CONTINUES TO BELONG TO THE OAS BUT NOT TO THE GROUP OF EIGHT. PANAMA HAS BEEN SUSPENDED TEMPORARILY FROM THIS GROUP UNTIL DEMOCRACY RETURNS TO THAT COUNTRY. THIS WILL BE STATED IN A DOCUMENT WE ARE PREPARING DURING THIS MEETING. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>[REPORTER] IS THE PARDON FOR MILITARY OFFICERS AND TERRORISTS IN ARGENTINA DAMAGING THE MORAL HEALTH OF YOUR COUNTRY OR ARGENTINA DEMOCRACY?</p><p>[MENEM] NO, BECAUSE THIS IS NOT THE FIRST TIME A PARDON HAS BEEN GRANTED IN THE WORLD. THERE HAVE BEEN PARDONS EVERYWHERE. NOT LONG AGO A PARDON WAS GRANTED IN URUGUAY AND IT HAS BEEN RATIFIED BY THE URUGUAYAN PEOPLE. A PARDON WAS GRANTED IN SPAIN AFTER THE [WORD INDISTINCT]. THERE WERE PARDONS GRANTED AFTER THE SECOND WORLD WAR. PARDONS AND FORGETTING HAVE ALLOWED THE INTEGRATION OF THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY. IT ALSO ALLOWED PRESIDENT BUSH TO PAY HOMMAGE TO EMPEROR HIROITO, ONE OF THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE SECOND WORLD WAR, DURING HIS FUNERAL. THEREFORE WE CAN COMPLETELY OVERCOME THIS MATTER.</p><p>[REPORTER] [PASSAGE OMITTED] REPORTED THAT ARGENTINA WOULD ASK TO PARTICIPATE IN THE SUMMIT MEETING OF THE PRESIDENTS OF COLOMBIA, PERU, AND BOLIVIA AND THE UNITED STATES. IS THIS TRUE, AND WHAT WOULD BE THE ARGENTINE ROLE IN THIS SUMMIT?</p><p>[MENEM] NO, THAT IS NOT CORRECT. WE SUPPORT THIS SUMMIT MEETING, AND CONTINUE MAINTAINING OUR SAME ATTITUDE TOWARD THE FIGHT AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING. WE CURRENTLY DO NOT DIFFERENTIATE BETWEEN COCA PRODUCER AND COCA CONSUMER COUNTRIES. THEY ARE BOTH PART OF A SAME PROCESS, SO WE MUST CARRY OUT AN ALL OUT WAR AGAINST THE THREE [AS HEARD] PHASES OF DRUG PRODUCTION AND MERCHANDISING.</p><p>[REPORTER] [PASSAGE INDISTINCT] A STRONGER ACTION IS REQUIRED BY [WORD INDISTINCT] ESPECIALLY THE UNITED STATES TO FIGHT DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>[MENEM] I THINK THAT WE NEED THE WILL OF EVERY ONE. WE WOULD NOT GAIN ANYTHING BY RESTRICTING THE PRODUCTION OF COCA IN PERU, COLOMBIA, AND BOLIVIA IF THE UNITED STATES DOES NOT HELP TO SUBSTITUTE THIS CROP. WE CANNOT DIVIDE THIS ACTION. THE FIGHT MUST BE AN ALL OUT WAR BY ALL THE COUNTRIES OF THE WORLD, BECAUSE DRUGS ARE CURRENTLY PRESENT IN ALL COUNTRIES. THERE IS NOT A SINGLE COUNTRY THAT CAN CLAIM THAT THERE IS NO DRUG ADDICITON OR TRAFFICKING IN ITS TERRITORY. NOT LONG AGO, I READ THAT 14 DRUG TRAFFICKERS WERE HANGED IN SAUDI ARABIA, WHERE THEY ARE VERY CONSERVATIVE AND WHERE THERE IS STRICT CONTROL OVER ANY KIND OF VICE.</p><p>[REPORTER] [PASSAGE INDISTINCT] WHAT POSITION HAS ARGENTINA MAINTAINED THROUGHOUT THIS MEETING REGARDING THE FOREIGN DEBT ISSUE? DO YOU THINK ALL THE GROUP OF EIGHT MEMBERS WILL ARRIVE TO A JOINT POSITION REGARDING THIS ISSUE?</p><p>[MENEM] WE ARE CURRENTLY RENEGOTIATING OUR DEBTS INDIVIDUALLY BECAUSE EACH COUNTRY IS DIFFERENT. THE ECONOMIC POLICIES HAVE SO FAR NOT BEEN INTEGRATED BUT THEY MUST BE INTEGRATED. AS LONG AS WE DO NOT ATTAIN INTEGRATION, THE FOREIGN DEBT NEGOTIATIONS WILL BE CARRIED OUT INDIVIDUALLY. IF WE MAKE PROGRESS TOWARDS INTEGRATION, THINGS MAY CHANGE FOR THE BENEFIT OF ALL. FOR THE TIME BEING THE NEGOTIATIONS WILL BE CARRIED OUT SEPARATELY.</p><p>[REPORTER] PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA YESTERDAY CALLED FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF CONCRETE INTEGRATION GOALS FOR 1992. HAS THIS BEEN DISCUSSED BY THE PRESIDENTS? WILL CONCRETE GOALS BE FIXED?</p><p>[MENEM] WE ARE DISCUSSING THIS. WE HAVE ALREADY SET CONCRETE GOALS, BASED ON EXPERIENCES. FOR EXAMPLE WE HAVE AN ECONOMIC INTEGRATION WITH BRAZIL, WHICH URUGUAY RECENTLY JOINED. THIS MUST SERVE AS AN EXAMPLE FOR THE REST OF THE LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES. OF COURSE WE MUST NOT FORGET SOME OF THE POSITIVE RESULTS, LIKE IN THE CASE OF THE ANDEAN PACT WHICH IS REVIVING AND REORGANIZING ITSELF, AND OTHER AGREEMENTS NOT ONLY IN LATIN AMERICA BUT IN THE WHOLE AMERICAN CONTINENT. WE ARE HEADING TOWARD A CONTINENTAL UNITY LIKE THAT OF CANADA AND THE UNITED STATES. AFTER LATIN AMERICA ACHIEVES INTEGRATION WE WANT INTEGRATION WITH CENTRAL AND NORTHERN AMERICA. [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[MENEM] PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO WAS SURPRISED, BECAUSE HE THOUGHT THAT THE CREW OF THE THREE PLANES WE DONATED TO COLOMBIA HAD ALREADY RETURNED TO ARGENTINA. HOWEVER, THEY ARE STILL THERE WAITING FOR THE AIRPLANES TO BE PLACED AT THE SERVICE OF THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING. [PASSAGE OMITTED] [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>