<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0478"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0478"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0478</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0478 (UMASS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 14 SEP 89 (REUTER) -- [TEXT] THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT AND THE 19 APRIL MOVEMENT (M-19) HAVE POSTPONED SIGNING A PEACE AGREEMENT BUT HAVE NOT BROKEN OFF THE NEGOTIATIONS, AN M-19 SPOKESMAN ANNOUNCED TODAY.</p><p>RAFAEL PARDO RUEDA, PRESIDENTIAL ADVISER FOR PEACE AFFAIRS, ANNOUNCED THAT AFTER THE TALKS ON 13 SEPTEMBER IN SANTO DOMINGO (400 KM SOUTHWEST OF BOGOTA), THE AGREEMENT FOR THE M-19 TO DEMOBILIZE AND RETURN TO POLITICAL LIFE WAS POSTPONED.</p><p>IN STATEMENTS BY TELEPHONE TO REUTER FROM SANTO DOMINGO, HIPOLITO BLANCO, A RANKING M-19 SPOKESMAN, SAID "WE HOPE TO HOLD ANOTHER MEETING SOON; THE TOPICS WE MUST AGREE UPON ARE COMPLEX AND WE MUST TAKE TIME TO ANALYZE THEM."</p><p>BLANCO POINTED OUT THAT "YESTERDAY'S MEETING WAS CHARACTERIZED BY CORDIALITY," BUT "THE MECHANISMS TO BROADEN DEMOCRACY IN THE COUNTRY AND DEMOBILIZATION" ARE ISSUES THAT MUST STILL BE STUDIED IN-DEPTH.</p><p>BLANCO ADMITTED THAT ONE OF THE SUBJECTS BEING CONSIDERED IS A PARDON FOR M-19 MEMBERS, INCLUDING THOSE WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE VIOLENT OCCUPATION OF THE JUSTICE PALACE IN NOVEMBER 1985, WHEN APPROXIMATELY 100 PEOPLE WERE KILLED.</p><p>THE M-19 IS ONE OF SIX ACTIVE GUERRILLA GROUPS IN COLOMBIA AND THE ONE THAT HAS MADE THE GREATEST PROGRESS IN PEACE TALKS WITH THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>THE GROUP IS NATIONALIST IN IDEOLOGY. IT HAS 1,000 ARMED MEN, IS BEST KNOWN FOR ITS SPECTACULAR OPERATIONS, AND MAY WELL BECOME THE FIRST COLOMBIAN GUERRILLA GROUP TO LAY DOWN THEIR ARMS INDEFINITELY.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT AND THE M-19 SIGNED A PEACE AGREEMENT ON 17 MARCH AND OPENED TALKS IN MAY WITH POLITICAL AND SOCIAL SECTORS CALLED "WORKING TABLES."</p><p>THE INITIAL RESULTS OF THE "WORKING TABLES" -- WHICH ENDED THE FIRST WEEK OF JULY -- WILL BE PRESENTED TO CONGRESS AND THE PRESIDENCY IN ORDER FOR THEM TO BE TRANSFORMED INTO CONSTITUTIONAL REFORMS, LAWS, OR DECREES.</p><p>SOME OF THE REFORMS DEAL WITH THE REPRESENTATION OF MINORITY GROUPS IN CONGRESS AND MECHANISMS FOR THE DEMOBILIZATION OF THE GUERRILLAS.</p><p>OTHER GUERRILLA ORGANIZATIONS WILL PROBABLY MEET WITH THE GOVERNMENT THIS MONTH TO SPEED UP THE PEACEMAKING PROCESS.</p><p>THE ONLY GUERRILLA GROUP THAT HAS STAYED AWAY FROM THE PEACE PROCESS IS THE CASTROITE NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY, WHICH CEASED BOMBING PIPELINES ON 25 AUGUST, BUT HAS CONTINUED ITS GUERRILLA OPERATIONS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO MILITARY ESTIMATES, THE SIX INSURGENT GROUPS IN COLOMBIA HAVE A TOTAL OF APPROXIMATELY 7,000 ARMED MEN.</p></body></html>