<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0500"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0500"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0500</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0500 (UMASS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 20 SEP 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] A HELICOPTER WAS DAMAGED, A REBEL WAS KILLED, AND TWO OTHERS WERE WOUNDED IN HEAVY CLASHES IN THE NORTHERN SECTOR OF THE COUNTRY, THE SALVADORAN ARMY REPORTED TODAY.</p><p>THE OFFICIAL BULLETIN REPORTS THAT A FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] REBEL WAS KILLED AND TWO OTHERS WERE WOUNDED TODAY IN CLASHES IN DULCE NOMBRE DE MARIA, AND NUEVA CONCEPCION, IN THE NORTHERN CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT.</p><p>THE PRESS COMMITTEE OF THE ARMED FORCES (COPREFA) REPORTED THAT THE GUERRILLA'S ANTIAIRCRAFT FIRE ON 19 SEPTEMBER DAMAGED A U.S.- MADE UH-1H AIR FORCE HELICOPTER AS IT WAS EVACUATING A WOUNDED SOLDIER NEAR SAN JOSE GUAYABAL, 30 KM NORTH OF SAN SALVADOR. THE ARMED CLASHES TOOK PLACE AMID THE FMLN 10-DAY UNILATERAL TRUCE DECREED BY THE FMLN ON 13 SEPTEMBER, WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE DIALOGUE HELD LAST WEEK IN MEXICO CITY BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE INSURGENTS.</p><p>MEANWHILE, AT LEAST THREE VILLAGES IN THE GUAZAPA HILL AREA, 25 KM NORTH OF SAN SALVADOR, TODAY REMAINED WITHOUT ELECTRICITY DUE TO THE INTENSE CLASHES WHICH LASTED UNTIL DAYBREAK.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES HAVE ONLY ADMITTED THAT A SOLDIER HAS BEEN KILLED IN THESE CLASHES AND THAT A HELICOPTER HAS BEEN DAMAGED. THE ARMY CLAIMS IT HAS INFLICTED SEVERAL CASUALTIES ON THE REBELS, BUT THE NUMBER OF CASUALTIES IS STILL UNKNOWN.</p><p>ACCORDING TO CIVILIAN SOURCES IN THE ZONE, SEVERAL HELICOPTERS AND AN AIRPLANE ON 19 SEPTEMBER AND TODAY AT DAYBREAK BOMBED ALLEGED REBEL POSITIONS IN THE FOOTHILLS OF GUAZAPA HILL.</p></body></html>