<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0533"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0533"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0533</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0533 (UMASS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 24 SEP 89 (EL TIEMPO) -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [REPORTER] WHAT IS THE TRUTH OVER THE SIGNING OF THE DECREES? WERE THEY SIGNED ONLY AFTER THE ATTACK ON LUIS CARLOS GALAN?</p><p>[DE GREIFF] THE DECREES WERE BEING STUDIED SINCE NOON ON THE DAY OF HIS DEATH. IT HAD BEEN A VERY TOUGH WEEK. THE MAGISTRATE AND THE COLONEL HAD BEEN MURDERED; GALAN WAS MURDERED THAT EVENING. THERE WAS MUCH DISCUSSION OVER THE DRAFTS, BUT I BELIEVE THAT THE ATTACK ON GALAN HURRIED THINGS UP.</p><p>IN THE CASE OF THE EXTRADITION DECREE, WE WERE ALL AWARE THAT IT WAS NOT A POPULAR MEASURE. PHILOSOPHICALLY, MOST MINISTERS DID NOT LIKE THE IDEA OF COLOMBIANS BEING TRIED ABROAD. THERE WAS MUCH LEGAL DISCUSSION, NOT ONLY TO DO WITH THIS CASE, BUT ALSO OVER THE NEW MEASURES CONCERNING RAIDS, SEIZURES, AND ARRESTS.</p><p>HOWEVER, FINALLY THERE WAS A GREAT DETERMINATION TO GIVE THE COUNTRY ANSWERS.</p><p>[REPORTER] THE COUNTRY'S CURRENT PROBLEMS HAVE MUCH TO DO WITH THE EXTRADITION DECREE.</p><p>[DE GREIFF] WE MUST NOT FORGET THAT THESE MEASURES ARE NOT AGAINST A GROUP OF PEOPLE, BUT AGAINST VIOLENCE. EXTRADITION HAS BEEN A VERY TOUGH MEASURE FOR EVERYONE. THE INCONVENIENCES AND THE LEGALITY OF THIS DECREE, AS WELL AS THE POSSIBLE REACTIONS AGAINST IT, WERE DISCUSSED A GREAT DEAL. IT CAN BE THAT PART OF THE VIOLENCE GENERATED HAS BEEN DUE TO THE EXTRADITION DECREE.</p><p>[REPORTER] IS IT POSSIBLE TO BEGIN A DIALOGUE WITH THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS AS A WAY OF ENDING THE COUNTRY'S VIOLENCE?</p><p>[DE GREIFF] THE GOVERNMENT SAID NO TO THE DIALOGUE, BUT WE MUST WAIT AND SEE HOW EVENTS DEVELOP. I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT A GOVERNMENT'S DECISION CAN BE STRICT, BECAUSE SITUATIONS DO CHANGE. THE PRESIDENT HAS SAID THAT DIALOGUE IS IMPOSSIBLE. YOU NEVER KNOW, THINGS MAY CHANGE IN THE FUTURE.</p><p>ANYWAY, IN COLOMBIA PRACTICALLY NO WARS HAVE ENDED, BECAUSE IN NEARLY ALL WARS AN AGREEMENT WAS REACHED.</p><p>[REPORTER] BUT IF COLOMBIA HOLDS A DIALOGUE, THE WORLD'S DOORS WILL PROBABLY CLOSE ON COLOMBIA.</p><p>[DE GREIFF] LOOK, IN THE UNITED STATES I WAS ASKED ABOUT THE EXTRADITION AND I SAID IT WAS NOT POPULAR, THAT IT WAS NOT GOING TO SOLVE THE DRUG TRAFFICKING PROBLEM. IT IS NOT THE GOVERNMENT'S STANCE, BUT IF IT IS DECIDED TO HOLD A DIALOGUE, THEN THIS WOULD BE A SOVEREIGN COLOMBIAN DECISION. OBVIOUSLY, IF THE POSITION CHANGES A BAD IMPRESSION WILL BE GIVEN.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN VERY CLEAR THAT IT HAS NOT LOST ITS SOVEREIGNTY.</p><p>[REPORTER] THE INTERNATINAL PRESS FEELS A LITTLE DISAPPOINTED WITH YOUR RESIGNATION. ONE MUST NOT FORGET THAT YOU BECAME A SYMBOL FOR THE FOREIGN JOURNALISTS WHEN YOU TRAVELED TO WASHINGTON.</p><p>[DE GREIFF] I HELD A NEWS CONFERENCE ON 22 SEPTEMBER AND I TOLD THEM THAT MY RESIGNATION WAS NOT MONICA DE GREIFF'S POSITION, BUT THE GOVERNMENT'S. I TOLD THEM I WAS STAYING IN THE COUNTRY, AND I EXPLAINED TO THEM THAT THE MINISTERS HERE REMAIN AT THEIR POSTS UNTIL THE PRESIDENT DECIDES OTHERWISE. HOWEVER, THEY DID NOT UNDERSTAND WHY.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT WILL MONICA DE GREIFF DO?</p><p>[DE GREIFF] I AM GOING TO REST FOR A FEW DAYS AND THEN RETURN. I AM GOING TO HELP ERNESTO SAMPER'S CAMPAIGN. I ALSO BELIEVE THAT WORKING FOR PRIVATE ENTERPRISE WILL BE A GOOD OPPORTUNITY.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT POST HAS GIVEN YOU THE GREATEST SATISFACTION?</p><p>[DE GREIFF] WHEN I WAS AT THE MINISTRY OF MINES AND ENERGY. IT WAS FASCINATING. I HAD TWO VERY GOOD BOSSES: GUILLERMO PERRY AND OSCAR MEJIA. I WORKED IN DELIGHTFUL HARMONY WITH A GROUP OF GOOD PEOPLE. I BELIEVE THAT MINING AND HYDROCARBONS IS THE SECTOR THAT HAS ENJOYED THE GREATEST PROGRESS UNDER THIS GOVERNMENT.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT IS YOUR FINAL FEELING UPON LEAVING THE MINISTRY?</p><p>[DE GREIFF] EVERY CLOUD HAS A SILVER LINING. I HAVE BEEN SPARED FROM MANY BORING THINGS. I HAVE NOT HAD TO SIGN EXTRADITION ORDERS OR THINGS LIKE THAT. WITHOUT REALIZING IT, I HAVE BEEN SPARED OF TIRING THINGS.</p></body></html>