<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1180"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1180"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1180</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1180 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 22 MAR 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [REPORT] [EDUARDO CARRILLO] [TEXT] RADIO CADENA NACIONAL HAS LEARNED THAT DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL OSCAR BOTERO RESTREPO HAS ORDERED THE INDEFINITE CONFINEMENT OF NATIONAL POLICE AND MILITARY FORCES TO THEIR BARRACKS. THEY ARE TO STAY THERE UNTIL IT IS CLEAR THAT THE PUBLIC ORDER SITUATION RESULTING FROM THE ASSASSINATION OF BERNARDO JARAMILLO OSSA, PATRIOTIC UNION [UP] PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE, IS UNDER CONTROL.</p><p>MEANWHILE, A NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL MEETING IS TAKING PLACE AT THE NARINO PRESIDENTIAL PALACE. THE PARTICIPANTS ARE DISCUSSING THE INCIDENTS THAT DISRUPTED THE DAILY LIVES OF ALL COLOMBIANS TODAY WHEN A TERRORIST KILLED UP PRESIDENT BERNARDO JARAMILLO AT THE EL DORADO INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT.</p><p>WE HAVE ALSO LEARNED THAT PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO AND GOVERNMENT MINISTER CARLOS LEMOS SIMMONDS HAVE BEEN IN CONSTANT CONTACT WITH THE POLICE AUTHORITIES AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY, DAS, IN AN EFFORT TO LEARN ALL THE DETAILS FOLLOWING THE ATTACK ON JARAMILLO. [PASSAGE INDISTINCT] THE OFFICES OF THE DAS.</p><p>TO AVOID CONFUSING REPORTS AND MISINTERPRETATIONS, ALL REPORTS HAVE BEEN RELEASED THROUGH THROUGH THE GOVERNMENT MINISTRY, WHICH IS HEADED BY DR. CARLOS LEMOS SIMMONDS.</p></body></html>