<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0938"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0938"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0938</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0938 (SRI)</p><p>BOGOTA, 6 DEC 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] COLOMBIA'S ACTING PRESIDENT CARLOS LEMOS HAS SAID THAT THE NARCOTERRORISTS WHO PERPETRATED AN ATTACK IN BOGOTA TODAY THAT LEFT 31 DEAD AND MORE THAN 1,000 INJURED "DESERVE NO MERCY FROM GOD."</p><p>LEMOS ADMITTED THAT THE CAR BOMB ATTACK ON THE HEADQUARTERS OF COLOMBIA'S SECRET SECURITY POLICE (DAS) IN BOGOTA "IS THE MOST SERIOUS AND THE BLOODIEST" ATTACK EVER COMMITTED IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>LEMOS, FILLING IN FOR PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO WHO IS ON AN OFFICIAL VISIT TO JAPAN, TOLD AFP THAT CONTROLLING THE TERRORISTS "IS VERY DIFFICULT" BECAUSE "THEY ENJOY THE ADVANTAGE OF SURPRISE."</p><p>THE ACTING PRESIDENT POINTED OUT THAT "THE AUTHORITIES CANNOT GUARD EVERY METER OF THE CITY STREETS."</p><p>LEMOS SAID THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS STEPPED UP SECURITY THROUGHOUT THE CAPITAL, AND ADDED THAT A "HEAD-ON" STRUGGLE WILL BE WAGED AGAINST THE DRUG TRAFFICKING MAFIAS THAT ARE OPERATING IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>"THERE IS NO POSSIBILITY FOR A TRUCE WITH DRUG TRAFFICKERS," THE ACTING MINISTER SAID. HE POINTED OUT THAT "THE SLAUGHTER," WHICH HE HAD WARNED ABOUT LAST WEEK BEFORE THE CHAMBER OF REPRESENTATIVES, IS NOW UNDER WAY.</p><p>LEMOS HAS OPPOSED THE INCLUSION OF THE EXTRADICTION TO THE UNITED STATES OF COLOMBIANS CHARGED WITH DRUG TRAFFICKING IN A REFERENDUM SCHEDULED FOR 21 JANUARY.</p><p>LEMOS SEIZED THAT OPPORTUNITY TO URGE MEMBERS OF CONGRESS (CHAMBER AND SENATE) TO KEEP EXTRADICTION AS A TOOL TO PUNISH DRUG TRAFFICKERS.</p><p>A GROUP OF PARLIAMENTARIANS HAVE INSISTED ON INTRODUCING THE EXTRADICTION ISSUE IN THE REFERENDUM. THE GOVERNMENT BELIEVES THAT THIS IS A PERNICIOUS ACTION, BECAUSE IT COULD INCREASE THE TERRORISM THAT IS SCORCHING THE COUNTRY.</p><p>"THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT CANNOT BE DEPRIVED OF A TOOL SUCH AS EXTRADICTION," LEMOS CONCLUDED.</p><p>LAST NIGHT THE CHAMBER OF REPRESENTATIVES SURPRISINGLY APPROVED A CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT TO INCLUDE THE EXTRADICTION ISSUE IN THE REFERENDUM.</p></body></html>