<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0841"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0841"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0841</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0841 (PRC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 22 NOV 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] THE EL DESPERTAR REFUGEE CENTER IN SAN SALVADOR, MANAGED BY JESUITS, WAS EVACUATED TODAY BECAUSE IT WAS HIT BY A MISSILE FIRED BY A MILITARY PLANE LAST NIGHT, RELIGIOUS AND DIPLOMATIC SOURCES HAVE SAID.</p><p>SPANISH CITIZEN JOSE MARIA TOJEIRA, SUPERIOR OF THE JESUITS IN CENTRAL AMERICA, TOLD ACAN - EFE THAT A ROCKET HIT EL DESPERTAR BUT THAT NONE OF THE 4 PRIESTS AND APPROXIMATELY 100 REFUGEES, WHO HAVE BEEN THERE SINCE LAST WEEK'S BLOODY CONFRONTATIONS, WAS HURT.</p><p>THE 4 JESUITS, INCLUDING DIRECTOR RICHARD HOWARD, A U.S. CITIZEN, WERE TRAPPED WITH THE REFUGEES AT EL DESPERTAR FOR 24 HOURS BECAUSE OF CLASHES IN THE SECTOR BETWEEN THE ARMED FORCES AND GUERRILLAS. THE LATTER YESTERDAY BROKE INTO THE HOTEL WHERE OAS SECRETARY GENERAL JOAO BAENA SOARES WAS STAYING.</p><p>A SOURCE OF THE SPANISH EMBASSY IN SAN SALVADOR TOLD ACAN - EFE THAT HE HAD TO CONVINCE THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND ARMY TO STOP THE AIR STRIKES AGAINST EL DESPERTAR, LOCATED IN SAN ANTONIO ABAD IN THE CAPITAL'S NORTHWEST.</p><p>BECAUSE OF THE FIGHTING AROUND THE SHERATON HOTEL, TWO OTHER JESUITS YESTERDAY WERE TRAPPED AT THE SACRED HEART SECONDARY SCHOOL, WHERE SEVERAL DOZENS OF PEOPLE HAVE SOUGHT REFUGE, THE ORDER'S SUPERIOR FOR CENTRAL AMERICA TOLD ACAN - EFE.</p><p>ACCORDING TO TOJEIRA, THE EVACUATION OF THE REFUGEES WAS DISCUSSED WITH SALVADORAN ARCHBISHOP ARTURO RIVERA DAMAS. THE REFUGEES WERE TAKEN TO PLACES CONSIDERED SAFER.</p><p>THE JESUITS REGRETTED THAT THE AIR FORCE FIRED AGAINST THIS REFUGEE CENTER, WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN MANAGING FOR 6 YEARS, WHEN THE WAR IN EL SALVADOR INCREASED ITS TEMPO.</p><p>JESUITS IGNACIO ELLACURIA, IGNACIO MARTIN BARO, SEGUNDO MONTES, AMANDO LOPEZ, JUAN RAMON MORENO, AND JOAQUIN LOPEZ, THE FIRST FIVE SPANIARDS AND THE LAST A SALVADORAN, WERE KILLED IN SAN SALVADOR ON 16 NOVEMBER.</p></body></html>