<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0784"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0784"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0784</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0784 (PRC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 17 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [STATEMENT] [GUATEMALAN NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY UNITY GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] WE CONDEMN GUATEMALAN INTERFERENCE IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>THE GUATEMALAN NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY UNITY [URNG] GENERAL COMMAND EXPRESSES ITS PROFOUND SOLIDARITY AND ADMIRATION FOR THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND THEIR VANGUARD FORCES, THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT], WHO WITH GREAT HEROISM AND DETERMINATION, ARE WRITING ONE OF THE MOST GLORIOUS PAGES IN SALVADORAN HISTORY.</p><p>WITH DEEP INDIGNATION, WE HAVE SEEN HOW THE MEMBERS OF LA TANDONA, [MEMBERS OF THE 1966 GRADUATING CLASS OF THE CAPTAIN GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY ACADEMY] AND THE ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] GOVERNMENT HEADED BY PRESIDENT CRISTIANI HAVE DECIDED TO CONDUCT AND MAINTAIN MASSIVE BOMBINGS AGAINST THE DEFENSELESS CIVILIAN POPULATION, THUS SOWING DEATH, SLAUGHTERING, AND DESTROYING, IN VIEW OF THEIR INABILITY TO DEFEAT, DISLODGE, OR CONTAIN THE HEROIC FMLN FIGHTERS.</p><p>CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT AND THE SALVADORAN ARMY HAVE LOST CONTROL OVER THEIR ACTIONS BECAUSE OF THEIR DESPERATION OVER THE FMLN'S VICTORIOUS ADVANCE. THE FMLN FORCES HAVE NOT ONLY MAINTAINED THEIR POSITIONS, BUT HAVE ALSO INCREASED THEM IN SAN SALVADOR AND THROUGHOUT THE REMAINING SALVADORAN TERRITORY.</p><p>ACTING OUT OF REVENGE, CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT AND THE SALVADORAN ARMY BEGAN A SERIES OF CRIMINAL ACTIONS AIMED AT ALL THOSE WHO HAVE IDENTIFIED THEMSELVES WITH THE FAIR CAUSES OF THE SALVADORAN MAJORITY. AS A RESULT, EARLY ON THE MORNING OF 16 NOVEMBER, SIX JESUIT PRIESTS AND TWO HUMBLE WOMEN WHO WORKED WITH THEM WERE BRUTALLY MURDERED.</p><p>WE SHARE THE ENORMOUS PAIN OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND THAT OF THE JESUIT COMMUNITIES. WE ADD OUR PROTEST TO THE VOICES OF ALL THOSE WHO HAVE PROTESTED AGAINST SUCH A VILE MURDER.</p><p>THE URNG GENERAL COMMAND VIGOROUSLY CONDEMNS THOSE ACTIONS AND CALLS ON THE GUATEMALAN PEOPLE AND ON ALL POLITICAL, SOCIAL, DEMOCRATIC, AND RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS TO EXPRESS THEMSELVES AGAINST THOSE BARBARIC AND GENOCIDAL ACTIONS, WHICH CAN ONLY BE COMPARED TO THE ACTIONS CARRIED OUT BY THE UNITED STATES IN VIETNAM AND THE NAZIS DURING WORLD WAR II.</p><p>IN OUR STATEMENT ISSUED ON 13 NOVEMBER, WE REPORTED THE INTERVENTIONIST PLANS OF THE GUATEMALAN ARMY AGAINST OUR FRATERNAL NATION, EL SALVADOR. ACCORDING TO REPORTS RELEASED BY PRESS AGENCIES ON 15 NOVEMBER, 126 GUATEMALAN ARMY MEN BELONGING TO SPECIAL TROOPS CALLED SAIBILES, WHO CHARACTERIZED THEMSELVES FOR THEIR PATHOLOGIC SAVAGERY, WERE DEPLOYED. [SENTENCE AS HEARD] PRESIDENT CEREZO, THE CHIEF OF THE GUATEMALAN GENERAL STAFF, AND THE GUATEMALAN ARMY OFFICIAL SPOKESMAN HAVE ALREADY PUBLICLY EXPRESSED THEIR SOLIDARITY AND SUPPORT FOR CRISTIANI.</p><p>WE VIGOROUSLY CONDEMN THE INTERFERENCE OF THE GUATEMALAN ARMY AGAINST THE GLORIOUS SALVADORAN PEOPLE. WE CALL ON ALL GUATEMALAN GROUPS TO PROTEST THAT INTERFERENCE. WE WILL MAKE THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT AND ARMY PAY A VERY HIGH PRICE FOR THIS AGGRESSION AGAINST THE FRATERNAL SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>WE WARN THE WORLD THAT A GENOCIDE LARGER THAN THE ONE WHICH HAS ALREADY OCCURRED IS BEING CONDUCTED IN EL SALVADOR NOW. WE ARE SURE THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WILL DEFEAT ALL THEIR ENEMIES; THAT THEY WILL BE THE WINNERS OF THIS HISTORIC STRUGGLE, AND THAT THEY WILL ACHIEVE THEIR GOALS.</p><p>THE BLOOD THAT HAS BEEN SHED WILL TURN INTO NEW LIFE. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WILL UNDOUBTEDLY ACHIEVE THEIR GOALS OF FREEDOM, DEMOCRACY, AND PEACE.</p><p>GUATEMALA, 17 NOVEMBER 1989</p><p>URNG GENERAL COMMAND</p><p>[SIGNED] COMMANDER ROLANDO MORAN</p><p>COMMANDER GASPAR ILOM</p><p>COMMANDER PABLO MONSANTO</p><p>CARLOS GONZALEZ, PGT [GUATEMALAN LABOR PARTY] SECRETARY GENERAL</p></body></html>