<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0439"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0439"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0439</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0439 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 6 SEP 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] LUZ AMPARO GOMEZ SERNA, A 29-YEAR-OLD WOMAN FROM CALI, WAS MURDERED AT 1620 THIS AFTERNOON. THE LA GRAN COLOMBIA UNIVERSITY LAWYER HAD JUST LEFT A FRUIT STAND IN THE POLO CLUB NEIGHBORHOOD IN NORTHERN BOGOTA AND WAS GETTING INTO A RENAULT STATION WAGON DRIVEN BY HER BROTHER, WILLIAM, WHEN A YOUNG MAN APPROACHED HER AND SHOT HER THREE TIMES IN THE HEAD WITH A 9-MM GUN. THE KILLER, A YOUNG MAN, ESCAPED IN A GREEN SAMURAI CAMPER THAT WAS WAITING FOR HIM A FEW BLOCKS FROM THE SITE OF THE MURDER.</p><p>ACCORDING TO LUZ AMPARO GOMEZ SERNA'S FAMILY, SHE HAD NEVER BEEN THREATENED. UNTIL A FEW MONTHS AGO, SHE WORKED AT THE DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE FOR THE NATIONAL AND JUDICIAL POLICE AND SHE HAD SPECIALIZED ABROAD IN CRIMINAL PROCEDURES. SHE WAS CURRENTLY THE LAWYER FOR EMERALD DEALER ANGEL GAITAIN MAECHA AND WAS DEFENSE ATTORNEY IN THE CASE OF THE EL PORTAL APARTMENTS IN NORTHERN BOGOTA.</p><p>SHE WAS MARRIED AND HAD NO CHILDREN. HER HUSBAND, JAIME CASTRO, IS CURRENTLY IN SPAIN. A CRIMINAL COURT JUDGE HAS ORDERED A CORONER'S REPORT.</p></body></html>