<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0577"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0577"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0577</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0577 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>LIMA, 15 OCT 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] VICTOR POLAY, THE LEADER OF THE PERUVIAN TERRORIST TUPAC AMARU REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT (MRTA) GROUP, TODAY ADMITTED THE POSSIBILITY THAT THE MRTA WILL PROPOSE HIS RELEASE IN EXCHANGE FOR THE RELEASE OF TELEVISION IMPRESARIO HECTOR DELGADO PARKER. POLAY IS BEING HELD AT A PENITENTIARY IN LIMA.</p><p>THE REMARKS BY POLAY, WHO WAS CAPTURED BY PERUVIAN POLICE IN FEBRUARY 1989 IN THE CITY OF HUANCAYO, 315 KM EAST OF LIMA, WERE PUBLISHED TODAY BY THE LIMA DAILY "LA REPUBLICA," WHICH INTERVIEWED HIM AT HIS CELL IN LIMA'S CANTO GRANDE PENITENTIARY.</p><p>LAST THURDAY [12 OCTOBER], THE WEEKLY "CAMBIO," WHICH IS DESCRIBED BY POLICE SOURCES AS THE MRTA'S UNOFFICIAL MOUTHPIECE, REPORTED THAT THE MRTA -- WHICH UPHOLDS THE BELIEFS OF GUERRILLA ERNESTO "CHE" GUEVARA -- KIDNAPPED IMPRESARIO DELGADO PARKER ON 4 OCTOBER 1989 IN LIMA, SAYING THAT HE WILL BE TRIED "BY A REVOLUTIONARY COURT."</p><p>DELGADO PARKER WAS AN ADVISER TO PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA AND IS THE GODFATHER OF ONE OF HIS DAUGHTERS.</p><p>POLAY TOLD "LA REPUBLICA" THAT THE KIDNAPPING OF THE IMPORTANT PERUVIAN TELEVISION IMPRESARIO IS OF A"POLITICAL" NATURE AND IS DIFFERENT FROM OTHER KIDNAPPINGS OF OTHER PROMINENT TYCOONS CARRIED OUT BY THE MRTA PEOPLE TO OBTAIN RANSOM MONEY, AND THAT, THEREFORE, THE PETITION THAT WILL BE MADE "MUST BE POLITICAL."</p><p>POLAY TOLD "LA REPUBLICA" THAT HE IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR DELGADO PARKER'S KIDNAPPING, A BLOODY ACTION IN WHICH THE IMPRESARIO'S DRIVER WAS KILLED AND THE IMPRESARIO'S BODYGUARD WAS INJURED. POLAY SAID THAT HE CANNOT PREDICT THE DECISION THAT THE "REVOLUTIONARY COURT" WILL MAKE AFTER THE "PEOPLE'S JUDGMENT" TO WHICH THE IMPRESARIO WILL BE SUBJECTED.</p><p>POLAY, HOWEVER, ADMITTED THE POSSIBILITY OF AN EXCHANGE DEAL BECAUSE "THE KIDNAPPING IS POLITICAL AND THE PETITION THAT WILL BE MADE MUST BE POLITICAL."</p><p>THE PUBLICATION OF POLAY'S INTERVIEW TODAY COINCIDES WITH REPORTS BY LOCAL NEWSPAPERS ON THE CAPTURE OF 12 REGIONAL MRTA LEADERS. THIS NEWS WAS ANNOUNCED IN THE CITY OF CAJAMARCA, 870 KM NORTH OF LIMA.</p><p>THE NATIONAL POLICE HAVE ANNOUNCED THAT THE OPERATIONS, LEADING TO THE CAPTURE OF THE MRTA LEADERS, HAVE BEEN CARRIED OUT OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS, AND THAT ACTIVISTS, WHO WERE OPERTING IN THE DEPARTMENTS OF CAJAMARCA, LA LIBERTAD, AND ANCASH IN NORTHERN PERU AND WHO WERE RESPONSIBLE FOR AT LEAST 20 BOMB ATTACKS IN DIFFERENT LOCATIONS, HAVE BEEN DETAINED.</p><p>THE NATIONAL POLICE ADDED THAT FIREARMS, EXPLOSIVES, AND PROPAGANDA MATERIAL WERE SEIZED FROM THE MRTA LEADERS.</p></body></html>