<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0687"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0687"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0687</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0687 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI] [TEXT] [CRISTIANI, IN PROGRESS] ...ADDRESS YOU ON THIS OCCASION TO EXPLAIN THE SITUATION WHICH HAS ARISEN, A REPREHENSIBLE SITUATION CAUSED BY THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] WHICH ONCE AGAIN IS ENDANGERING THE LIVES OF THE CIVILIAN POPULATION IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>WE BELIEVE IT IS UNJUSTIFIABLE, UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES, FOR THE FMLN TO CARRY OUT THIS TYPE OF ACTION, WHICH IS NOT A MILITARY ACTION, KNOWING THAT A PEACE PROCESS IS UNDERWAY. THESE ARE ACTIONS THAT GO....[CHANGES THOUGHT] THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ARE ALWAYS THE ONES WHO PAY MOST DEARLY FOR THE F M L N'S IRRATIONAL ATTITUDE. THIS IS PROVED BY THE DEPLORABLE INCIDENT WHICH OCCURRED YESTERDAY MORNING, WHEN TWO SMALL CHILDREN -- 4- YEARS OLD AND 1- YEAR OLD -- DIED AS A RESULT OF THE F M L N'S IRRATIONAL ACTIONS.</p><p>WE BELIEVE, SALVADORAN PEOPLE, THAT THE PEACE PROCESS IS IRREVERSIBLE AND IT SHOULD OCCUR; AND IT HAS BEEN SUPPORTED -- NOT ONLY BY YOU, AS PEOPLE WHO DEMAND PEACE AND TRANQUILITY, BUT ALSO BY THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY -- THROUGHOUT THESE MONTHS. YOU HAVE BEEN THE BEST WITNESSES OF THE EFFORTS EXERTED BY YOUR GOVERNMENT AT THE INTERNATIONAL LEVEL AND OF THE SUPPORT....[CORRECTS HIMSELF] THE UNDENIABLE SUPPORT RECEIVED FROM ALL THE NATIONS WHO ARE FRIENDS OF EL SALVADOR. ACTIONS LIKE THE ONES WHICH THE FMLN IS TRYING TO CARRY OUT ARE NO LONGER JUSTIFIABLE.</p><p>WE WOULD LIKE TO THANK YOU THIS MORNING FOR THE WAY IN WHICH YOU, WHO ARE PART OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE [AS HEARD], HAVE BEHAVED. WE CANNOT BUT STATE OUR GRATITUDE FOR THE MANY STATEMENTS WE HAVE BEEN HEARING THROUGH THE NATIONAL NETWORK WHICH BEGAN LAST NIGHT, PARTICULARLY THE SUPPORT YOU HAVE GIVEN TO YOUR ARMED FORCES.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES ARE BENT ON STOPPING THE TERRORISTS AND PROTECTING YOU, MEANING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. THE ARMED FORCES ARE A PROFESSIONAL CORPS; AND THE ARMED FORCES ARE PREPARED TO COUNTER ANY IRRATIONAL FMLN ACTION -- EVEN THIS ONE, WHICH IS ONLY BEING CARRIED OUT FOR PUBLICITY PURPOSES WITH THE SUPPORT OF THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT, WHICH IS ISSUING FALSE STATEMENTS THROUGH A NETWORK THAT HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED BETWEEN RADIO SANDINO AND RADIO VENCEREMOS.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE, OUR ARMED FORCES CONTROL THE SITUATION. THE ARMED FORCES HAVE BEEN ABLE TO DO THIS THANKS TO YOUR SUPPORT AND COOPERATION; AND THE TERRORISTS WILL BE FORCED TO GATHER IN INCREASINGLY SMALLER PLACES. WE BELIEVE THAT THE ARMED FORCES WILL DEFINITELY CONTROL THE SITUATION IN A SHORT TIME. HOWEVER, IT IS NECESSARY TO CONTINUE RECEIVING YOUR SUPPORT. THE ARMED FORCES DO NOT WANT, UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES, TO ENDANGER THE LIFE OF EVEN ONE SINGLE CIVILIAN; BUT THEY WILL SEE TO IT THAT THE TERRORISTS RECEIVE WHAT THEY DESERVE ON THIS OCCASION, WHEN THEY HAVE CAUSED SO MUCH DAMAGE TO THE POPULATION, ITSELF.</p><p>WE BELIEVE IT IS NECESSARY FOR YOU TO HEED THE CALL NOT TO GO OUT ON TO THE STREETS; TO STAY AT HOME OR AT THE RESIDENCE IN WHICH YOU ARE RIGHT NOW -- EVEN IF IT IS NOT YOUR OWN -- BECAUSE IT IS NOW A MATTER OF TIME. I REPEAT, WE DO NOT WANT ANY MORE CASUALTIES AS A RESULT OF THE F M L N'S IRRATIONAL ATTITUDE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>