<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0082"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0082"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-02-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0082</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0082 (NOSC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 8 FEB 89 (REUTER) -- [TEXT] PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO RESHUFFLED HIS CABINET TODAY, APPOINTING FIVE NEW MINISTERS AND RECONFIRMING EIGHT FOR THE FINAL PHASE OF HIS TERM, ACCORDING TO AN OFFICIAL DECREE.</p><p>THE REORGANIZATION OCCURRED AFTER THE MINISTERS PRESENTED A PROTOCOL RESIGNATION TO ALLOW THE PRESIDENT TO APPOINT NEW MINISTERS; SOME OF THEM DID NOT WANT TO BE POLITICALLY DISQUALIFIED FROM RUNNING FOR A SEAT IN CONGRESS IN THE 1990 ELECTIONS.</p><p>THIS HAS BEEN THE THIRD IMPORTANT CABINET RESHUFFLE SINCE BARCO TOOK OFFICE IN AUGUST 1986.</p><p>THE FIVE NEW CABINET MINISTERS INCLUDE TWO WOMEN WHO WILL HOLD THE POSTS OF PUBLIC WORKS AND LABOR MINISTERS. THE OTHERS WHO WILL JOIN THE CABINET WERE APPOINTED TO THE GOVERNMENT, COMMUNICATIONS, AND HEALTH MINISTRIES.</p><p>THE OUTGOING MINISTERS STATED IN THEIR PROTOCOL LETTER OF RESIGNATION THAT A CABINET RESHUFFLE IS FUNDAMENTAL TO ALLOW THE GOVERNMENT TO ACHIEVE ITS GOALS IN THE FINAL STAGE OF PRESIDENT BARCO'S ADMINISTRATION.</p><p>"WE HAVE SERVED IN A A PARTICULARLY DIFFICULT PERIOD OF NATIONAL LIFE, CHARACTERIZED BY SITUATIONS OF CRIMINALITY AND TERRORISM," THE RESIGNATION LETTER STATED.</p><p>THE LETTER ADDED THAT THE RESIGNATION RESULTED FROM SOME OF THE MINISTERS' NOT WANTING TO BE POLITICALLY DISQUALIFIED FROM RUNNING FOR PUBLIC POSTS. COLOMBIAN LAW DEMANDS THAT THOSE ASPIRING TO PUBLIC POSTS MUST NOT HAVE SERVED AS GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS WITHIN THE LAST 12 MONTHS.</p></body></html>