<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0125"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0125"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0125</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0125 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 14 MAR 89 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] URBAN COMMANDOS DESTROYED A TRUCK OWNED BY TROPICAL SODA COMPANY AT APPROXIMATELY 0730 TODAY ON THE MAIN ROAD OF DOLORES NEIGHBORHOOD.</p><p>THE STRONG EXPLOSION, WHICH DESTROYED THE FRONT PART OF THE TRUCK, CAUSED MINOR PROPERTY DAMAGE TO NEARBY HOUSES AND TO VEHICLES PARKED IN THE AREA. THE INFORMATION RELEASED INDICATES THERE WERE NO CASUALTIES AS A RESULT OF THE EXPLOSION AND ADDS THAT THREE YOUNG MEN PLACED THE DYNAMITE CHARGE AND WARNED THE DRIVER TO LEAVE THE AREA.</p><p>ACCORDING TO RESIDENTS OF THE AREA, A BEER TRUCK WAS ALSO BLOWN UP 3 DAYS AGO IN THAT SAME PLACE. THAT TRUCK WAS OWNED BY LA CONSTANCIA BEER COMPANY.</p><p>IN ADDITION, AN AGRICULTURE MINISTRY VEHICLE WAS PARTIALLY DESTROYED BY A DYNAMITE CHARGE. THE ATTACK TOOK PLACE AT THE CORNER OF ROOSEVELT AVE AND 53TH AVENUE SOUTH NEAR THE AGRICULTURE MINISTRY AT APPROXIMATELY 0900.</p><p>ACCORDING TO A WITNESS, THE DYNAMITE CHARGE WAS PLACED BY A YOUNG MAN WHO LEFT IN A WHITE PICKUP TRUCK THAT WAS WAITING FOR HIM ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE STREET. THE DESTROYED VEHICLE BELONGED TO THE AGRICULTURE MINISTRY PROJECT DEPARTMENT.</p><p>ALTHOUGH WE COULD NOT CONFIRM THIS REPORT, AGRICULTURE MINISTRY EMPLOYEES ASSERTED THAT A VENDOR WALKING ON THE AREA WAS WOUNDED AS A RESULT OF THE EXPLOSION. WINDOWS OF NEARBY BUILDINGS AND THE WINDSHIELD OF ANOTHER MINISTRY VEHICLE WERE ALSO BROKEN AS A RESULT OF THE EXPLOSION. NO ORGANIZATION CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS ATTACK, ALTHOUGH IT WAS SAID THAT THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY HAS BEEN USING THOSE VEHICLES FOR ITS POLITICAL CAMPAIGN.</p><p>ANOTHER REPORT STATED TWO GAS STATIONS WERE SABOTAGED BY FMLN URBAN COMMANDOS IN SEVERAL PARTS OF SAN SALVADOR, WITHOUT INFLICTING ANY CASUALTIES. ONE OF THE GAS STATIONS IS LOCATED ON THE ROAD LEADING TO SAN ANTONIO ABAD. A FOUR-PERSON REBEL GROUP PLACED A POWERFUL BOMB INSIDE THE GAS STATION OFFICE AT APPROXIMATELY 1600, CAUSING SERIOUS PROPERTY DAMAGE.</p><p>THE OFFICE AND EQUIPMENT OF THE SECOND GAS STATION, KNOWN AS TEXACO - LOS CONGOS, WAS ALSO SERIOUSLY DAMAGED AS A RESULT OF TWO EXPLOSIONS.</p><p>IN ADDITION, A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION BUS WAS STOPPED ON THE ROAD TO MONTSERRAT. THE INCIDENT DID NOT CAUSE ANY PROPERTY DAMAGE BUT DID CAUSE FEAR AMONG AREA RESIDENTS.</p><p>OFFICIAL SOURCES ADDED THAT TWO PARAMILITARY MEN WERE MURDERED BY FMLN UNITS EARLY THIS MORNING IN THE NORTHERN END OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>THE REPORT INDICATES ANGEL MARROQUIN HERNANDEZ AND JOSE ANGEL FLORES, MEMBERS OF THE SANTO DOMINGO CANTON CIVIL DEFENSE, WERE ABDUCTED AND SUBSEQUENTLY MURDERED BY THE REBELS NEAR [NAME INDISTINCT] BRIDGE, GUAZAPA JURISDICTION. IN ADDITION, THREE TREASURY POLICE MEMBERS WERE WOUNDED DURING A REBEL ATTACK LAST NIGHT. THE ATTACK TOOK PLACE ON ARMY BOULEVARD. FINALLY, A MINOR WAS SERIOUSLY WOUNDED THIS MORNING AFTER URBAN COMMANDOS DETONATED A BOMB NEAR A POWER TOWER IN SOYAPANGO CITY.</p></body></html>