<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0069"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0069"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-02-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0069</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0069 (NOSC)</p><p>LIMA, 2 FEB 89 -- [TEXT] INTERIOR MINISTER JUAN SORIA DIAZ HAS DENIED THAT TWO DEA [DRUG ENFORCEMENT AGENCY] HELICOPTERS HAVE BEEN DOWNED BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS IN TINGO MARIA.</p><p>THE INTERIOR MINISTER ALSO SAID THAT SATISFACTORY PROGRESS IS BEING MADE IN FORMING A CIVILIAN FRONT TO FIGHT SUBVERSION.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [SORIA] A FAIRLY LARGE ACTIVITY HAS BEEN REPORTED IN THE HUALLAGA AREA. DRUG TRAFFICKING HAS BEEN REPRESSED. I HAVE BEEN INFORMED THAT SOME ARRESTS HAVE REPORTEDLY BEEN MADE. A LARGE QUANTITY OF DRUGS HAS BEEN SEIZED, AND SOME PEOPLE HAVE REPORTEDLY BEEN INJURED IN THE AREA. I AM AWAITING A FINAL REPORT.</p><p>[REPORTER] [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE TWO HELICOPTERS THAT HAVE REPORTEDLY BEEN DOWNED BY TERRORISTS IN THE ALTO HUALLAGAS AREA, SIR?</p><p>[SORIA] WELL, I DO NOT KNOW WHERE THIS REPORT ORIGINATED. I CAN ASSURE YOU THAT THE DEA HELICOPTERS THAT ARE COOPERATING WITH THE POLICE FORCES HAVE NOT SUFFERED ANY DAMAGE.</p><p>[REPORTER] HAVE THE HELICOPTERS BEEN DOWNED?</p><p>[SORIA] THEY HAVE NOT BEEN DOWNED. NO HELICOPTER HAS BEEN DOWNED. THE HELICOPTERS HAVE NOT BEEN INVOLVED IN ANY TYPE OF INCIDENT. I DO NOT KNOW WHERE YOU GOT THAT REPORT.</p><p>[REPORTER] IS IT TRUE THAT SOME POLICEMEN ARE DESERTING IN SOME AREAS OF CONFLICT IN THE COUNTRY, MINISTER?</p><p>[SORIA] NOT THAT I KNOW OF. I DO NOT KNOW WHERE YOU GOT THAT REPORT.</p><p>[REPORTER] MINISTER, IN THE PAST FEW DAYS IT HAS BEEN ANNOUNCED THAT THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS IN THE INTERIOR OF THE COUNTRY COULD BE IN JEOPARDY. HAVE ANY PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES BEEN TAKEN?</p><p>[SORIA] PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES HAVE BEEN TAKEN. THE ENTIRE ELECTORAL TIMETABLE IS BEING IMPLEMENTED THROUGH THE EFFORTS OF THE ARMED FORCES, WHICH ARE CONSTITUTIONALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ELECTIONS.</p><p>[REPORTER] WOULD THE VIOLENCE IN THE COUNTRY PROMPT THE STATE OF SIEGE AT A NATIONAL LEVEL?</p><p>[SORIA] NO. I BELIEVE THAT THE VIOLENCE IN THE COUNTRY REMAINS UNDER CONTROL AT A NATIONAL LEVEL. IT HAS NOT CHANGED MUCH SINCE LAST YEAR. WE ARE CONTINUING TO IMPLEMENT ALL THE APPROPRIATE MEASURES TO GUARANTEE PUBLIC SECURITY.</p><p>[REPORTER] MINISTER, THE FORMATION OF A CIVILIAN FRONT TO FIGHT SUBVERSION HAS BEEN MENTIONED. IT HAS BEEN SAID THAT AN ATTEMPT IS ALREADY BEING MADE IN THIS REGARD. WHAT PROGRESS HAS BEEN MADE?</p><p>[SORIA] WELL, THE PRIME MINISTER HAS MADE SEVERAL CALLS IN THE NAME OF THE GOVERNMENT, STATING THAT WE MUST UNITE TO FIGHT SUBVERSION. NO ONE CAN REMAIN NEUTRAL CONCERNING SUBVERSION BECAUSE SOONER OR LATER ALL OF US WILL BE AFFECTED.</p><p>THE PERUVIAN COMMUNITIES ARE BECOMING INCREASINGLY AWARE OF THIS FACT. THEY ARE ALREADY DEFENDING THEMSELVES, AND WE ARE HELPING THEM TO DEFEND THEMSELVES.</p><p>[REPORTER, INTERRUPTING] IS EVERY MINISTRY WORKING TO THIS EFFECT?</p><p>[SORIA] EVERY MINISTRY IS WORKING TO THIS EFFECT, AND WE ARE SUPLYING ALL THE COMMUNITIES THAT WANT TO COOPERATE IN DEFENDING THEMSELVES FROM SUBVERSION WITH THE APPROPRIATE MEANS AND ORGANIZATIONS. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>