<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0991"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0991"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0991</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0991 (SRI)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 14 DEC 89 (EL DIARIO DE HOY) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT HAS NOT PROPOSED TO THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT RESUMING DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR RELATIONS, PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI EXPLAINED ON 13 DECEMBER AT THE PRESIDENTIAL PALACE.</p><p>"I HAVE NOT TALKED ABOUT UNILATERALLY NORMALIZING RELATIONS, NOR ARE WE THINKING OF DOING THIS UNLESS THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT COMPLIES WITH CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS THAT WE PRESENTED IN A DOCUMENT IN SAN JOSE," THE PRESIDENT SAID.</p><p>IN A NEWS CONFERENCE HOSTED ON 12 DECEMBER, HE SAID THAT THE PRESIDENTS OF GUATEMALA, HONDURAS, AND COSTA RICA HAD URGED SOME TYPE OF DIALOGUE OR NEGOTIATIONS WITH ORTEGA TO SEEK NORMALIZING RELATIONS WITH NICARAGUA, AND AS A RESULT HE PRESENTED THE DOCUMENTS WITH THE REQUIREMENTS.</p><p>UNTIL THE AFTERNOON OF 13 DECEMBER, THE NICARAGUAN REGIME HAD NOT ANSWERED THE MINIMUM CONDITIONS FOR EL SALVADOR TO REESTABLISH OR NORMALIZE RELATIONS WITH MANAGUA.</p><p>EL SALVADOR SUSPENDED ALL TYPES OF RELATIONS WITH NICARAGUA ON 26 NOVEMBER, AFTER THE SALVADORAN ARMY DISCOVERED A PLANE COMING FROM MANAGUA WITH WEAPONS FOR THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN].</p><p>CRISTIANI HAS INSISTED THAT "WITHOUT THE MATERIAL SUPPORT THAT THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT GIVES THE TERRORISTS OPERATING HERE, THEY WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN ABLE TO LAUNCH THE UNSUCCESSFUL OFFENSIVE OF 11 NOVEMBER IN SAN SALVADOR AND OTHER IMPORTANT CITIES AROUND THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT SAID THAT IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, HE SHOWED ORTEGA A GREAT DEAL OF EVIDENCE OF THE NICARAGUAN INTERVENTION IN SALVADORAN AFFAIRS.</p><p>HE ALSO SHOWED ALL THE PRESIDENTS A VIDEO IN WHICH MEMBERS OF THE FMLN ARE SHOWN RECEIVING TRAINING IN NICARAGUA, AND IN WHICH FMLN LEADERS SUCH AS JORGE SHAFIK HANDAL AND OTHERS ARE SHOWN RECEIVING INSTRUCTIONS IN MANAGUA, AND OTHER EVIDENCE. AFTER VIEWING SEVERAL MINUTES OF SUCH EVIDENCE, ORTEGA GOT UP AND TOLD THE PRESIDENTS HE WAS GOING TO MAKE A TELEPHONE CALL, BUT HE NEVER RETURNED TO THE ROOM, CRISTIANI SAID. "IN OTHER WORDS, ORTEGA WAS NEVER ABLE TO DENY HE IS SENDING WEAPONS AND HELP TO THE FMLN," THE PRESIDENT POINTED OUT.</p></body></html>