<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1022"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1022"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1022</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1022 (TRW)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 20 DEC 89 (EL DIARIO DE HOY) -- [TEXT] COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHIEF OF THE SALVADORAN JOINT STAFF, HAS STATED THAT THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] DOES NOT HAVE THE SLIGHTEST CHANCE TO LAUNCH A NEW OFFENSIVE BECAUSE THE RANK-AND-FILE OF THIS ORGANIZATION ARE TOTALLY DEMORALIZED DUE TO THE HEAVY CASUALTIES THAT THEY HAVE TAKEN. HE ADDED THAT THESE CASUALTIES INCLUDE NINE "COMMANDERS."</p><p>COL PONCE ADDED: "THE ARMED FORCES HAVE DEFEATED THE FMLN IN THE NORTHERN ZONE AND IN SOYAPANGO, SAN SALVADOR, SAN MIGUEL AND MORAZAN, CAUSING IN THE PROCESS OVER 2,000 CASUALTIES INCLUDING SEVERAL COMMANDERS AND MERCENARIES."</p><p>THE FMLN HAS PUBLICLY ADMITTED THAT "COMMANDERS" HERNAN SOLORZANO ("DIMAS RODRIGUEZ"), JORGE ORLANDO SANDOVAL ("OSCAR"), GEOMAR ARI ("CIRILO"), OVIDIO LOPEZ ("ORLANDO MORALES"), AND "POLITICAL OFFICERS" JOSE SANTOS LLANES ("PEPE") AND MILAGROS ALVARADO ("JUDY"), HAVE BEEN KILLED.</p><p>TERRORIST LEADERS MISAEL GALLARDO, NICOLAS ALBERTO SARAVIA, AND RICARDO MIRANDA HAVE ALSO BEEN KILLED SINCE THE BEGINNING OF THE FAILED FMLN OFFENSIVE ON 11 NOVEMBER.</p><p>COL PONCE REPORTED THAT MANY MERCENARIES, INCLUDING SOME WHO LOOKED EUROPEAN, DIED DURING THE CLASH WITH THE ARMY IN COLONIA ESCALON. PONCE ADDED THAT THE FAMILIES OF THESE MERCENARIES ARE NOW INQUIRING ABOUT THEM IN NICARAGUA.</p><p>COL PONCE BELIEVES THAT THE SABOTAGE WHICH THE FMLN IS CARRYING OUT BY BURNING BUSSES, DESTROYING POWER PYLONS, AND STAGING SMALL- SCALE ATTACKS, ARE MERELY THE "LAST KICKS" OF A DROWNING PERSON.</p><p>ASSISTED BY THE AIR FORCE, THE SALVADORAN ARMY CONTINUES TO STRIKE AT THE FEW TERRORISTS STRONGHOLDS IN THE NORTH, PARTS OF THE CAPITAL, AND OTHER AREAS IN THE INTERIOR.</p><p>PONCE INDICATED THAT THE FMLN IS SPREADING LIES IN AN ATTEMPT TO MAINTAIN ITS CREDIBILITY AND TO COVER UP THE HEAVY CASUALTIES IT HAS TAKEN. THE CASUALTIES REALLY NUMBER OVER 2,000 ALTHOUGH THE FMLN CLAIMS ONLY TO HAVE LOST 400 PEOPLE.</p><p>THE OFFICIAL ARMED FORCES REPORT ISSUED ON 30 NOVEMBER STATES THAT THE FMLN SUSTAINED 2,132 KILLED IN ACTION DURING THE OFFENSIVE WHILE THE GOVERNMENT LOST 476 TROOPS.</p><p>COL PONCE ADDED THAT THE INVESTIGATION CONTINUES INTO THE DEATH OF FOUR PEOPLE WHO DIED IN THE CRASH OF A PLANE THAT WAS BRINGING ARMS FOR THE FMLN FROM NICARAGUA. THE CRASH OCCURED IN AN ISOLATED AREA OF USULUTAN DEPARTMENT.</p><p>UNTIL YESTERDAY THE FMLN HAD NOT ADMITTED THAT THE CREW OF THE PLANE CARRYING ARMS THAT CRASHED ON 25 SEPTEMBER BELONGED TO TERRORIST GROUPS. ACCORDING TO THE FMLN THE CREW MEMBERS WERE SALVADORANS.</p><p>THE TERRORISTS REPORTED THAT THE DEAD CREWMEN WERE PILOT OSVALDO ALFARO AGUINADA, ALSO KNOWN AS "LUIS" AND "ANTIAIRCRAFT GUNNERS" ROMEL HERNANDEZ ARGUETA ("HELO"), ISIDRO PARADA MARTINEZ ("DENIS"), AND SANTIAGO RAUDA POSADA ("WILLIAM").</p><p>COL PONCE STATED THAT THIS "RUMOR IS A COMMUNIST MANEUVER TO MAKE SURE THAT DANIEL ORTEGA DOES NOT GET BLAMED IN THE LIGHT OF THE INTERNATIONAL PRESSURE AGAINST HIM BECAUSE OF HIS SUBVERSIVE CAMPAIGN IN AREA COUNTRIES."</p><p>PONCE ADDED THAT THE CURRENT STRATEGY OF THE DEFEATED FMLN IS LIMITED TO TALKING ABOUT FALSE VICTORIES TO NEWS MEDIA THAT THEY CONTROL, SO AS NOT TO DEMORALIZE THEIR RANK-AND-FILE; TO REFUTING ARMY REPORTS; AND TO DISSEMINATING FALSE FIGURES ON CASUALTIES ALLEGEDLY INFLICTED TO THE ARMY.</p></body></html>