<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0205"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0205"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0205</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0205 (ADS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 10 MAY 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] REBEL SOURCES HAVE REPORTED THAT THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLA MOVEMENT TODAY INFLICTED ALMOST 100 CASUALTIES ON THE SALVADORAN ARMY DURING ATTACKS ON 15 TOWNS IN 7 DEPARTMENTS.</p><p>RADIO VENCEREMOS, THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT'S [FMLN] OFFICIAL RADIO STATION, SAID THE REBELS ATTACKED THE GUARDS WHO WATCH OVER THE TOWN OF TEJUTEPEQUE IN THE NORTHEASTERN DEPARTMENT OF CABANAS, INFLICTING 90 CASUALTIES, INCLUDING DEAD OR WOUNDED.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES, WHICH CONFIRMED THE ATTACK, INDICATED THAT THE REBELS SUSTAINED 19 CASUALTIES, INCLUDING DEAD OR WOUNDED, WHILE 3 SOLDIERS WERE KILLED AND 6 WOUNDED IN A 2-HOUR CLASH THAT TOOK PLACE IN TEJUTEPEQUE, 60 KM NORTHWEST OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE REBELS, AN OFFICER AND A SERGEANT WERE KILLED IN THE TEJUTEPEQUE ATTACK, WHICH BEGAN EARLY IN THE MORNING OF 10 MAY.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE, COPREFA, PLAYED DOWN THE REBEL ATTACK AND ADMITTED ANOTHER THREE ARMY CASUALTIES AND THE DEATH OF ONE GUERRILLA DURING VARIOUS ATTACKS ON ARMY POSITIONS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE FIRST GUERRILLA MILITARY BULLETIN BROADCAST BY THE CLANDESTINE RADIO STATION DID NOT REPORT ANY REBEL CASUALTIES.</p><p>THE NEW REBEL OFFENSIVE ANNOUNCED IN APRIL IS CALLED: "EVERYBODY AGAINST THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA) AND TO STRUGGLE FOR PEACE." WITH THAT OFFENSIVE THE REBELS INTEND TO DESTABILIZE THE NEW GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT-ELECT ALFREDO CRISTIANI, WHO IS AN ARENA LEADER.</p><p>CRISTIANI WILL ASSUME THE PRESIDENCY ON 1 JUNE AND WILL BE REPLACING CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENT JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE.</p><p>THE REBEL STATION ADDED THAT ANOTHER THREE CASUALTIES WERE INFLICTED ON TROOPS OF MILITARY DETACHMENT NO. 3, WHO WATCH OVER THE TOWN OF ANAMOROS IN THE EASTERN DEPARTMENT OF LA UNION.</p><p>MILITARY SPOKESMEN ASSERTED THAT ONE GUERRILLA WAS KILLED DURING THE ATTACK ON MILITARY POSITIONS IN CHIRILAGUA, SAN MIGUEL DEPARTMENT.</p><p>A FUEL PUMP WAS DESTROYED BY SHRAPNEL FROM EXPLOSIVE DEVICES HURLED BY GUERRILLAS AGAINST A GARRISON OF THE 3D INFANTRY BRIGADE HEADQUARTERED IN SAN MIGUEL, THE COUNTRY'S THIRD MOST IMPORTANT CITY.</p><p>COLONEL MAURICIO VARGAS, COMMANDER OF THE 3D BRIGADE, SAID THE REBEL ATTACKS ARE "ACTIONS CARRIED OUT UNDER THE COVER OF DARKNESS AND ARE TREACHEROUS AND COWARDLY ACTS BECAUSE THE REBELS ARE AFRAID TO FACE THE SOLDIERS WHO REPRESENT THE GOVERNMENT AND THE COUNTRY'S MILITARY POWER."</p><p>VARGAS SAID THE REBELS DID NOT INFLICT CASUALTIES ON OR CAUSE DAMAGE TO THE GARRISON.</p><p>THE GUERRILLAS ALSO ATTACKED THE SOLDIERS GUARDING TWO COFFEE MILLS IN SANTIAGO DE MARIA, USULUTAN DEPARTMENT. THEY DID NOT INFLICT ANY CASUALTIES.</p><p>RADIO VENCEREMOS REPORTED THAT THE REBELS DESTROYED THE MUNICIPAL OFFICE, A GASOLINE STATION, AND THE CIVIL DEFENSE POST IN EL CONGO, SANTA ANA DEPARTMENT.</p><p>ACCORDING TO MILITARY SOURCES, THREE MEMBERS OF THE SO-CALLED CIVIL DEFENSE WERE WOUNDED WHEN THEIR POST WAS ATTACKED IN A VILLAGE NEAR METAPAN, SANTA ANA DEPARTMENT.</p><p>A MILITARY SOURCE ADDED THAT A TELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFICE WAS DESTROYED AND FIVE HOUSES DAMAGED BY EXPLOSIVES IN AGUILARES, IN SAN SALVADOR'S NORTHERN SUBURB.</p><p>THE REBELS SAID THEY ATTACKED MILITARY POSITIONS IN CHALATENANGO, SAN VICENTE, LA PAZ, AND MORAZAN DEPARTMENTS IN NORTHERN, CENTRAL, AND NORTHWESTERN EL SALVADOR, RESPECTIVELY, WITHOUT INFLICTING ANY CASUALTIES ON GOVERNMENT TROOPS.</p></body></html>