<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0421"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0421"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0421</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0421 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), NO DATE -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] FULLY AWARE OF OUR RESPONSIBILITY AND THE MAGNITUDE OF THE CHALLENGE, THE PCCH AND THE LEFTIST SECTOR, AS PART OF THE OPPOSITION, WILL SPARE NO SACRIFICE TO SECURE AN IMPORTANT VICTORY BY ELECTING PATRICIO AYLWIN PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC AND ESTABLISHING A DECISIVE MAJORITY IN CONGRESS FOR THE OPPOSITION, INCLUDING THE UNITED LEFT AND THE PAIS [BROAD PARTY OF THE SOCIALIST LEFT].</p><p>IN OUR OPINION, SAID VOLODIA TEITELBOIM, THIS IS NOT JUST AN ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN. WE DO NOT SEE IT AS SEPARATE FROM THE SOCIAL MOBILIZATION CARRIED OUT BY PEOPLE BURDENED BY HUNDREDS OF DAILY PROBLEMS, A MOBILIZATION TO RECOVER THEIR RIGHTS TO FOOD, JOBS, HEALTH, HOUSING, AND EDUCATION -- TO A WAY OF LIFE WORTHY OF HUMAN BEINGS.</p><p>FIVE OR SIX MILLION HUNGRY AND POOR CHILEANS IS A SCANDAL, AND THEY DESERVE A SHARE OF THE WEALTH OF THOSE WHO TOOK OVER THE COUNTRY'S GOVERNMENT.</p><p>WE NEED TO DEMAND AND DEFEND THE RESPECT FOR LIFE THAT HAS NOT BEEN GUARANTEED DURING THESE PAST 16 YEARS IN OUR FATHERLAND. A SINGLE DAY DOES NOT GO BY WITHOUT A DEFENDER OF FREEDOM BECOMING A VICTIM OF THE REGIME'S REPRESSIVE APPARATUS.</p><p>THE COMMUNIST REPRESENTATIVE ADDED: WE WANT PEACE FOR CHILE. WE WANT THE DEADLY VIOLENCE AND TERRORISM UNLEASHED ON 11 SEPTEMBER 1973 TO END ONCE AND FOR ALL.</p><p>THE CHILEAN DILEMMA CONTINUES TO BE DEMOCRACY OR DICTATORSHIP, LIBERTY OR TYRANNY, PERPETUATION IN POWER OR A NEW LIFE. VOLODIA TEITELBOIM HAS INDEED MADE A CALL TO GET ORGANIZED, TO UNITE, AND TO CONVINCE. THE PERPETUATION OF POWER IS NOW CALLED HERNAN BUCHI. WE MUST ALL UNITE TO DEFEAT PINOCHET. BUCHI IS HIS MAN.</p><p>TEITELBOIM POINTED OUT THAT THE PEOPLE DID NOT MAKE A MISTAKE. THEY JUST HAD TO CHANGE A LETTER OF BUCHI'S PROPAGANDISTIC SLOGANS TO RESTORE THE TRUTH: BUCHI IS NOT THE MAN; RATHER, HE REPRESENTS HUNGER.</p><p>IN ITS 15TH CONGRESS THE PCCH MADE A CALL TO DEFEAT THE MINISTER WHO HAS MADE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE POOR, THE MINISTER WHO HAS NOW BECOME A DEMAGOGUE AND IS PROMISING THE MOON AND AN UNREALISTIC WORLD FOR THE PEOPLE; THAT IS, THE MINISTER WHO IS PROMISING EVERYTHING HE FAILED TO ACCOMPLISH IN HIS YEARS AS MINISTER.</p><p>BUCHI'S INSINCERE PROMISES ARE SURPASSED ONLY BY ANOTHER TALKATIVE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE OF THE REGIME: MR ERRAZURIZ.</p><p>VOLODIA TEITELBOIM THEN ADDED: IN ORDER TO GUARANTEE THE VICTORY OF DEMOCRACY, IT IS NECESSARY TO ORGANIZE THE UNITED FORCES OF ALL THOSE WHO HOPE FOR LIBERTY.</p><p>WE HEREBY CALL FOR THE CREATION OF MILLIONS OF COMMANDOS FOR DEMOCRACY AND BROAD COMMITTEES ACROSS THE COUNTRY TO DISPLAY INITIATIVES, ENCOURAGE IMAGINATION, AND FORM CARAVANS OF PEOPLE WHO WILL GIVE EXPLANATIONS FROM DOOR TO DOOR AND FROM PERSON TO PERSON, IMPLEMENTING A FERVENT AND OVERWHELMING DYNAMIC CAPABLE OF CHANGING CHILE ON 14 DECEMBER 1989.</p><p>OUR PEOPLE HAVE ALWAYS PLAYED AN OUTSTANDING ROLE IN THE CRUCIAL CROSSROADS OF THE 20TH CENTURY. THEY ARE PLAYING IT NOW, FIGHTING WHOLEHEARTEDLY, CONVINCED THAT THE VICTORY OF DEMOCRACY WILL REPRESENT A SIGNIFICANT STEP TOWARD RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS, AN EMPHATIC AND RIGHTEOUS NO TO IMPUNITY, AND A SUBSTANTIVE YES TO LIBERTY FOR ALL POLITICAL PRISONERS AND TO THE DISSOLUTION OF THE CNI [NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER].</p><p>THE OUTSTANDING COMMUNIST LEADER AND INTELLECTUAL SAID THAT THESE ARE DAYS FOR GENEROSITY AND SPIRITUAL GRANDEUR. SEEKING DEMOCRACY, WE ARE SHAKING HANDS WITH ALL THOSE WITH WHOM WE HAVE HAD DISAGREEMENTS IN THE PAST. WE WANT TO EMPHASIZE THIS. ALTHOUGH WE ARE MOTIVATED BY DIFFERENT POLITICAL CONCEPTS, THIS IS A CREATIVE TIME FOR A COMMON DENOMINATOR, JOINT ACTIONS, AND FOR EVERYONE TO LEND A HAND.</p><p>IF THE OPPOSITION MARCHES UNITED TOWARD 14 DECEMBER, IT WILL ACHIEVE A OVERWHELMING VICTORY THAT WILL BE REGISTERED IN CHILEAN HISTORY AS A GOLDEN DATE OF EXTRAORDINARY SIGNIFICANCE.</p><p>SUCH A VICTORY WILL FINALLY RESTORE A RIGHT THAT HAS REPEATEDLY BEEN REQUESTED AND VIOLATED: THE RIGHT TO REJOICE AND TO TRUST IN THE FUTURE WITH THE CERTAINTY THAT NO ONE WILL SLIP UNNOTICED THROUGH THE SHADOWS OF THE NIGHT TO KILL A CHILEAN WITH IMPUNITY.</p><p>THE PEOPLE, ADDED VOLODIA TEITELBOIM, ARE BEGINNING TO PAINT THE WALLS WITH A SLOGAN: THE PEOPLE WIN, THE DICTATORSHIP IS OVER. THE DICTATORSHIP WILL END AND THE PEOPLE WILL WIN.</p><p>IF WE WIN IN 14 DECEMBER AND DOUBTLESSLY WE WILL, AND IF WE -- ALWAYS ACTING IN UNISON -- IMMEDIATELY SPOIL PINOCHET'S PLANS, WE WILL [WORD INDISTINCT] THEN THE PRESIDENT OF THE PRESIDENT OR THE PERPETUAL BOSS.</p><p>THE TOP LEADER OF CHILEAN COMMUNISTS WARNED THAT THE DANGERS AND DIFFICULTIES DEMAND THAT WE REMAIN ALERT AND WORK EVEN HARDER. WE MUST BURY ALL ATTEMPTS BY THE GENERAL AND HIS FAITHFULS TO STOP OR REVERSE CHILE'S PROGRESS TOWARD NEW HORIZONS.</p><p>VOLODIA TEITELBOIM POINTED OUT THAT PATRICIO AYLWIN, DURING A MEETING AT THE OPENING CEREMONY FOR THE CHRISTIAN LEFT PARTY OFFICES, EXPRESSED HIS DESIRE TO BE ABLE TO IMPLEMENT A TRULY DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT THAT WILL MAKE ALL CHILEANS ACTIVE AGAIN IN DEMOCRATIC LIFE. THIS PURPOSE REFLECTS THE SENTIMENTS OF A VAST MAJORITY OF THE PEOPLE WHO WANT TO TURN THE BLOODY PAGE OF THE DICTATORSHIP AND PUT AN END TO POLITICAL AND SOCIAL NEGLECT AND TO THE DIVISIONS BETWEEN HUMANS, BETWEEN PARIAHS AND PRIVILEGED ONES, AND BETWEEN FIRST-CLASS, SECOND-CLASS, OR THIRD-CLASS PEOPLE, WHERE SOME ENJOY EVERY RIGHT WHILE OTHERS ARE DENIED EVEN THE RIGHT TO LIVE.</p><p>IN HIS SPEECH OVER A PARTIAL RADIO NETWORK, THE PCCH SECRETARY GENERAL SAID: WE DREAM ABOUT AND STRIVE FOR A CHILE WITHOUT MISSING PEOPLE, WITHOUT EXECUTED PEOPLE, WITHOUT BURNED YOUTHS, WITHOUT POLITICAL PRISONERS, WITHOUT EXILES -- A FATHERLAND OF EQUALS AMONG EQUALS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>