<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1231"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1231"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1231</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1231 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 25 APR 90 (CANAL DOCE) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [COLONEL SIGIFREDO OCHOA PEREZ] [TEXT] 1. THE ATTITUDE OF CERTAIN BAD ARMED FORCES MEMBERS SHOULD NOT BE USED TO CREATE A NEGATIVE IMAGE OF THE ARMED FORCES IN GENERAL. QUITE THE CONTRARY, IT IS APPROPRIATE TO PURGE THE RANKS AND GET RID OF THOSE BAD MEMBERS, SO THAT THEY DO NOT CONTINUE TO HARM THE REMAINING MEMBERS.</p><p>2. THIS PUBLIC STATEMENT ABOUT THE NEED FOR A PURGE IS SIMPLY THE REPLY TO A HISTORICAL REQUIREMENT, BECAUSE WHOEVER REPORTS THE ISSUE DOES NOT CAUSE THE DAMAGE.</p><p>3. IN REFERENCE TO THOSE WHO CARRIED OUT THE ORDER TO ASSASSINATE THE JESUITS, THEY WERE ACTUALLY DOING THAT -- CARRYING OUT ORDERS. I HAVE ONLY SAID IN PUBLIC WHAT THE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN SAYING AND EXPRESSING IN A LOW VOICE.</p><p>4. THEREFORE, A NATIONAL COMMENTARY DOES NOT ENDANGER THE COUNTRY OR THE ARMED FORCES. THOSE WHO DECIDED TO ADOPT A DECISION, WHOSE SUBSEQUENT CONSEQUENCES THEY SHOULD HAVE ASSESSED, ARE THE ONES WHO ENDANGERED THE U.S. MILITARY AID AND -- IN THE PROCESS -- WITTINGLY OR UNWITTINGLY PLAYED INTO THE FMLN'S [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] HANDS.</p><p>5. WE SUPPOSE THAT THERE IS INFORMATION ON THE ISSUE AND THAT IT IS EXCLUSIVELY IN THE HANDS OF CERTAIN GROUPS WHICH, FOR ONE REASON OR ANOTHER, HAVE FAILED TO TURN IT OVER TO THE APPROPRIATE PERSONS.</p><p>6. JUST AS THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC AND A VAST MAJORITY OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE EXPECTED, A FULL INVESTIGATION AND SOLUTION OF THIS CRIME WHICH SHOOK THE WORLD, ALL GOOD SALVADORANS TRUST THAT JUSTICE WILL PREVAIL AND THAT THOSE WHO VIOLATED THE LAW WILL ANSWER FOR THE CRIME THEY HAVE PERPETRATED.</p></body></html>