<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0219"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0219"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0219</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0219 (ADS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 28 MAY 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [STATEMENT] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] POLITICAL PROPOSAL TO THE COUNTRY'S POLITICAL AND SOCIAL FORCES AND THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY:</p><p>THE 1 JUNE SWEARING-IN OF THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE [ARENA] GOVERNMENT MEANS THE WORSENING AND THE PROLONGATION OF THE WAR IN EL SALVADOR. MEASURES CONDUCIVE TO INCREASING REPRESSION, LEGALIZING DEATH SQUADS POSING AS CIVIL DEFENSE UNITS, GIVING TOTAL IMMUNITY TO DEATH SQUAD MEMBERS IMPLICATED IN MURDERS SUCH AS THAT OF MSGR ARNULFO ROMERO, WORSENING SOCIAL CONFLICT WITH THE DIRECT OR INDIRECT ABOLITION OF FLEDGLING ECONOMIC REFORMS, AND DISMISSING PUBLIC EMPLOYEES EN MASSE CREATE A CLIMATE TOTALLY UNFAVORABLE TO TALKS BETWEEN THE SIDES.</p><p>IN THE LIGHT OF THE SERIOUSNESS OF THE SITUATION, THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] ONCE AGAIN MAKES A NEW EFFORT AND PROPOSES A PRACTICAL WAY TO OPEN UP THE POSSIBILITY OF TALKS AND UNDERSTANDING THAT MAY LEAD TO A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION AND LASTING PEACE IN EL SALVADOR:</p><p>1. RESUMPTION OF TALKS WITH POLITICAL PARTIES. THE FMLN FEELS POLITICAL PARTIES NOT PARTICIPATING IN THE ARENA GOVERNMENT MAY PLAY THE ROLE OF SPONSORS AND NEGOTIATORS OF THE DIALOGUE UNTIL DIRECT NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN IS ACHIEVED. DURING THE OAXTEPEC MEETING, THE POLITICAL PARTIES ESTABLISHED THE NEED TO CONTINUE THE TALKS PAST 19 MARCH. THE FMLN DEEMS IT APPROPRIATE NOW TO REAFFIRM THIS NEED AND TO BEGIN TALKS AT A MUTUALLY AGREED ON PLACE AND DATE. DURING THESE MEETINGS BETWEEN THE OPPOSITION PARTIES THE FMLN, WE WOULD PROPOSE THE FOLLOWING PLATFORM OF COMMITMENTS WE FEEL THE FMLN AND THE NEW GOVERNMENT MUST ACCEPT AS MEASURES CONDUCIVE TOWARD CREATING THE CONDITIONS FOR A DIALOGUE AND DIRECT NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN THE SIDES:</p><p>2. POLITICAL COMMITMENTS OF THE FMLN:</p><p>A. TO ABSTAIN FROM ANY FORM OF ATTACK AGAINST POLITICAL LEADERS OF THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT.</p><p>B. TO SUSPEND NATIONWIDE TRANSPORTATION STOPPAGES AND THUS SUSPEND SABOTAGE OF PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION.</p><p>C. TO RESPECT THE LIVES, FREEDOM, AND WELL-BEING OF RELATIVES OF POLITICAL LEADERS AND OFFICERS IN THE GOVERNMENT AND IN THE ARMED FORCES AND TO RESPECT THEIR RESIDENCES.</p><p>D. TO CONTINUE TO REFRAIN FROM USING ARTILLERY-EQUIPPED PLATFORMS, KNOW AS CAR BOMBS.</p><p>E. TO RESPECT U.S. PERSONNEL AND INFRASTRUCTURE IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>F. TO SUSPEND SABOTAGE OF URBAN POWER POLES AND SHOPPING CENTERS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>