<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0713"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0713"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0713</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0713 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 13 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] WE REAFFIRM OUR APPEAL TO HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS, THE OAS, AND DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENTS, AND WE MAKE A SPECIAL CALL TO COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT OSCAR ARIAS, NOBEL PEACE PRIZE LAUREATE, TO CONTACT THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT AND THE HIGH COMMAND OF THE FASCIST ARMED FORCES TO PRESSURE THEM TO STOP THEIR BOMBINGS.</p><p>INTERNATIONAL JOURNALISTS HAVE ALREADY CONFIRMED THAT THESE BOMBINGS ARE TAKING PLACE IN DENSELY POPULATED AREAS OF THE CAPITAL. WE LEARNED THAT VIDEO REPORTS ARE ALREADY GOING AROUND THE WORLD SHOWING IMAGES OF THE ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD. THE BOMBINGS DESTROYED SOME BUILDINGS THERE AND SOME HOUSES IN OTHER AREAS OF THE CAPITAL. THERE ARE DOZENS OF CIVILIAN CASUALTIES.</p><p>THERE WERE INDISCRIMINATE BOMBINGS THIS MORNING IN SAN MIGUEL'S ESMERALDA NEIGHORHOOD AND IN OTHER NEIGHORHOODS. AT ABOUT 0900, A PLANE DROPPED A BOMB THAT HIT A CIVILIAN HOME IN SAN MIGUEL. A 12- YEAR-OLD GIRL WAS INJURED IN SOYAPANGO.</p><p>WE CALL ON DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENTS, THE UNITED NATIONS, AND THE OAS TO PRESSURE THE FASCIST GOVERNMENT TO STOP ITS BOMBINGS AGAINST THE PEOPLE, TO STOP THE INDISCRIMINATE BOMBINGS.</p></body></html>