<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0998"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0998"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0998</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0998 (SRI)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 15 DEC 89 (TCS TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] YESTERDAY, MARIA JULIA HERNANADEZ, DIRECTOR OF THE ARCHBISHOPRIC LEGAL ASSITANCE OFFICE, MADE OFFICIAL STATEMENTS BEFORE THE COURT REGARDING THE MURDER OF THE UCA [CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY] PRIESTS.</p><p>IN RESPONSE TO A REQUEST ISSUED BY THE SALVADORAN 4TH CRIMINAL COURT, MARIA JULIA HERNANDEZ MADE STATEMENTS BEFORE THE COURT REGARDING THE MURDER OF SIX UCA JESUIT PRIESTS. THE PRIESTS WERE KILLED ON 16 NOVEMBER.</p><p>ACCORDING TO HERNANDEZ, HER STATEMENT WAS PERSONAL AND SHE LIMITED HERSELF TO REPORTING ON THE INVESTIGATIONS SHE CONDUCTED AT UCA AFTER THE MURDER. IN HER STATEMENT, HERNANDEZ SAID THAT SHE FOUND FOUR BULLET CASINGS INSIDE UCA. THE PROSECUTORS THEN ALLEGED THAT SHE HAD COMMITTED A CRIME BY PICKING UP EVIDENCE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [HERNANDEZ] I MADE PERSONAL STATEMENTS AS A WITNESS. I TOLD THEM WHAT I SAW AND HEARD AT THE SITE OF THE CRIME. THAT IS WHAT I DID. THE PROSECUTORS ASKED ME ABOUT THE EVIDENCE I HAD GATHERED AT THE SITE OF THE CRIME. I PICKED UP FOUR BULLET CASINGS. THE PROSECUTORS SAID I HAD COMMITTED A CRIME. THAT IS, THEREFORE, THE CRIME I COMMITTED. [END RECORDING]</p><p>ALTHOUGH SHE DID NOT PROVIDE SUFFICIENT FACTS TO FORMULATE AN OPINION, HERNANDEZ SAID THAT AS AN INSTITUTION, THE ARCHBISHOPRIC LEGAL ASSISTANCE OFFICE BELIEVES THAT THE EVIDENCE, WHICH SHE DID NOT MENTION, INDICATES THAT ARMED FORCES MEMBERS, WHO REMAIN UNIDENTIFIED, ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MURDER OF THE JESUITS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [HERNANDEZ] THE CHURCH ALREADY ISSUED ITS OFFICIAL DOCUMENT CLEARLY STATING THAT THERE ARE ARMED FORCES MEMBERS INVOLVED IN THE MURDER OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS.</p><p>[REPORTER] ON WHAT DOES THE CHURCH BASE THAT ASSERTION?</p><p>[HERNANDEZ] ON THE INVESTIGATIONS CONDUCTED BY THE ARCHBISHOPRIC LEGAL ASSISTANCE OFFICE.</p><p>[REPORTER] YES, BUT WHAT PROOF DOES THE CHURCH HAVE TO MAKE THAT ASSERTION?</p><p>[HERNANDEZ] ALL THAT IS CONTAINED IN THE CHURCH DOCUMENT THAT WAS ALREADY RELEASED. YOU CAN GET THAT DOCUMENT IF YOU WANT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>IN ADDITION, MARIA JULIA HERNANDEZ DENIED STATEMENTS MADE BY SOME MILITARY CHIEFS WHO SAID THAT WITNESS LUCIA CERNA, WHO IS OUT OF THE COUNTRY, WAS NEVER MANIPULATED OR PRESSURED.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [HERNANDEZ] I WAS INTRODUCED TO MRS CERNA BY THE HEAD OF THE PROVINCIAL JESUIT ORDER ON MONDAY, 20 NOVEMBER. IN FRONT OF HIM, MRS CERNA MADE HER STATEMENT. AND SHE MADE THAT SAME STATEMENT BEFORE THE JUDGE AND THE PROSECUTORS AT THE SPANISH EMBASSY. THEY ARE WITNESSES TO THOSE STATEMENTS.</p><p>IN OTHER WORDS, SHE MADE THE STATEMENT AT THE SPANISH EMBASSY BEFORE I MET HER. I COULD NOT HAVE MANIPULATED HER AT ALL. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE 4TH CRIMINAL COURT PROCEDURES REGARDING THIS CASE WILL CONTINUE IN ORDER TO TRY TO CLARIFY THE DEATH OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS INCLUDING IGNACIO ELLACURIA. CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY LEADER FIDEL CHAVEZ MENA AND SAN SALVADOR AUXILIARY BISHOP MSGR GREGORIO ROSA CHAVEZ STILL HAVE TO MAKE THEIR STATEMENTS BEFORE THE COURT.</p></body></html>