<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0414"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0414"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0414</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0414 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 2 SEP 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 2) -- [REPORT] [BERTA LUCIA CEVALLOS] [TEXT] THE SO-CALLED EXTRADITABLES HAVE CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACK ON THE NEWSPAPER EL ESPECTADOR FACILITIES IN BOGOTA THIS MORNING. EL ESPECTADOR PRESIDENT LUIS GABRIEL CANO SAID HE RECEIVED THE PHONE CALL IN WHICH THE GROUP CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACK.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THERE IS CONFIRMATION OF AN ATTACK ON A PROPERTY OWNED BY THE CANO FAMILY IN ISLAS DEL ROSARIO.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CANO] THEY [NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED] BURNED A FEW VACATION CABINS AT A SMALL ISLET I OWN ON ROSARIO ISLAND.</p><p>[UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] HAVE YOU CALCULATED THE LOSSES CAUSED BY THE ATTACK ON ROSARIO ISLAND?</p><p>[CANO] NO, I DO NOT HAVE SPECIFIC DATA YET, BECAUSE I HAVE BEEN UNABLE TO COMMUNICATE WITH THE PEOPLE THERE. FORTUNATELY, THE WATCHMAN ON THE PROPERTY WAS UNHARMED. I WAS PLEASED TO KNOW THAT, BECAUSE I WAS AFRAID FOR HIM. PROPERTY CAN BE REPLACED, BUT HUMAN LIVES CANNOT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>WHILE THE LOSSES CAUSED ON EL ESPECTADOR WERE BEING ESTIMATED, VARIOUS PHONE CALLS WERE RECEIVED AT THE NEWSPAPER REGARDING THE DYNAMITE ATTACK.</p><p>ON 3 SEPTEMBER A REDUCED VERSION OF EL ESPECTADOR NEWSPAPER WILL CIRCULATE. APPROXIMATELY 250,000 COPIES OF EL ESPECTADOR WILL CIRCULATE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CANO] WE ARE MAKING HUGE EFFORTS TO CIRCULATE TOMORROW. EVEN IF TOMORROW'S ISSUE OF OUR NEWSPAPER HAS ONLY TWO OR FOUR PAGES, EL ESPECTADOR WILL CIRCULATE ON 3 SEPTEMBER AND WILL CONTINUE TO CIRCULATE. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>