<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0904"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0904"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0904</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0904 (GTE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 30 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, FMLN] [TEXT] REGARDING THE INTERNATIONAL SCANDAL THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT HAS MADE OVER AN ALLEGED SHIPMENT OF SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILES FOUND INSIDE A WRECKED LIGHT AIRCRAFT, THE FMLN EXPRESSES THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>1. IN VIEW OF A POSSIBLE INTENSIFICATION OF THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT, IT IS NECESSARY TO NOTE THAT THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES WERE THE FIRST ONES TO ESCALATE THE WAR BY LAUNCHING INDISCRIMINATE ATTACKS AND AIR BOMBINGS AGAINST THE CIVILIAN POPULATION IN DENSELY POPULATED URBAN AREAS. THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES HAD BEEN DOING THIS FOR SEVERAL YEARS IN OUR COUNTRY'S RURAL AREAS. IN VIEW OF THE DAMAGE THAT THIS CAUSES THE POPULATION, SINCE 1987 THE FMLN HAS MADE PROPOSALS TO SCALE DOWN THE WAR AND SUSPEND THE USE OF AIRCRAFT AND AVIATION EQUIPMENT.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT'S CHARGES ARE HYPOCRITICAL, AS THE GOVERNMENT ITSELF HAS TURNED AIRCRAFT INTO REAL INSTRUMENTS OF GENOCIDE AGAINST THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>2. THE POLICY OF THE PREVIOUS U.S. ADMINISTRATION HAS TURNED CENTRAL AMERICA INTO A HUGE ARMS MARKET WHEREBY THOUSANDS OF TONS OF SOVIET AND U.S. WEAPONS, INCLUDING SURFACE-TO AIR MISSILES, HAVE BEEN INTRODUCED INTO THE AREA. THIS HAS CREATED A FLOURISHING BLACK MARKET FOR WEAPONS, WHERE SALVADORAN AND HONDURAN MILITARY MEN AND NICARAGUAN CONTRAS PARTICIPATE AS BIG-TIME SMUGGLERS.</p><p>3. THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT HAS BEGUN A CAMPAIGN OF ACCUSATIONS AGAINST THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT WITH THE INTENTION OF PUTTING UP A SMOKE SCREEN TO COVER THE GENOCIDE IT HAS UNLEASHED AND TO DIVERT THE ATTENTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, WHICH HAS BEEN DEMANDING:</p><p>A) THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT STOP THE MASSIVE AND INDISCRIMINATE ATTACKS IN DENSELY POPULATED URBAN AREAS AND THE PERSECUTION AGAINST THE POLITICAL OPPOSITION AND GRASS ROOTS MOVEMENTS;</p><p>B) AN INVESTIGATION TO CLEAR UP THE MURDER OF SIX JESUIT PRIESTS AND TWO DOMESTIC WORKERS, ALONG WITH THE PUNISHMENT OF THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THESE AND SIMILAR CRIMES; AND,</p><p>C) THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT ACCEPT THE CEASE-FIRE IT HAS HERETOFORE REJECTED AND JUSTIFY ITS INTRANSIGENT AND IRRATIONAL POSITION.</p><p>4. CRISTIANI'S DECISION TO SUSPEND RELATIONS WITH NICARAGUA BASED ON AN ALLEGED SHIPMENT OF MISSILES FOR THE FMLN IS NOT REASONABLE, NOT EVEN BY SAYING THAT THIS REPRESENTS AN ESCALATION OF THE SALVADORAN WAR. IN FACT, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAS ESCALATED THE WAR BY SENDING $4 BILLION IN AID TO STRENGTHEN THE ARMY AND PROVIDE IT WITH A POWERFUL AIR FORCE.</p><p>THE JUSTIFICATION HAS ALWAYS BEEN NICARAGUA'S SUPPORT TO THE FMLN, THUS REFUSING TO ADMIT THE INTERNAL CAUSES OF THE CONFLICT AND ALSO KEEPING THE DOORS CLOSED TO ANY NEGOTIATIONS. THIS HAS UNNECESSARILY PROLONGED THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S SUFFERING AND HAS MADE MORE DRAMATIC THEIR LEGITIMATE STRUGGLE FOR A TRUE DEMOCRATIC, PLURALIST, AND NON-ALIGNED GOVERNMENT.</p><p>BASED ON THE ABOVE, WE REITERATE:</p><p>1. THAT WE CONSIDER ABSOLUTELY LEGITIMATE OUR RIGHT TO OBTAIN ALL TYPES OF WEAPONS TO GUARANTEE OUR DEFENSE AND TO PROTECT OUR PEOPLE FROM THE [WORD INDISTINCT] MILITARY ESCALATION PROMOTED BY THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT WITH THE FIRM SUPPORT OF THE PREVIOUS AND PRESENT U.S. GOVERNMENTS. THIS INCLUDES THE RIGHT TO OBTAIN WEAPONS FROM VARIOUS SOURCES AND TO GUARANTEE THEIR ARRIVAL AT OUR WAR FRONTS THROUGH ANY MEANS AVAILABLE.</p><p>2. WE MAINTAIN OUR TOTAL WILLINGNESS TO DE-ESCALATE THE WAR. WE BEGIN BY EXPRESSING THAT WE ARE TOTALLY WILLING TO AGREE ON A CEASE-FIRE WITH INTERNATIONAL SUPERVISION AND TO BEGIN REAL NEGOTIATIONS TO END THE WAR WITH THE PARTICIPATION OF ALL THE NATION'S POLITICAL AND SOCIAL FORCES.</p><p>3. WE ARE WILLING TO REFRAIN FROM USING THE SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILES IF THE AIR FORCE CALLS A COMPLETE HALT TO ITS BOMBINGS, STRAFING, AND MACHINEGUNNING THROUGHOUT THE NATIONAL TERRITORY.</p><p>[SIGNED] FMLN GENERAL COMMAND</p><p>COMMANDERS JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS, SHAFIK JORGE HANDAL, EDUARDO SANCHO, SALVADOR SANCHEZ SEREN, AND FRANCISCO JOVEL</p><p>EL SALVADOR, 29 NOVEMBER 1989</p></body></html>