<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0822"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0822"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0822</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0822 (PRC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 20 NOV 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN CAPITAL, WHICH HAS BEEN THE SCENE OF FIERCE FIGHTING BETWEEN THE SALVADORAN ARMY AND GUERRILLAS OVER THE PAST WEEK, IS SLOWLY RETURNING TO NORMAL. FOR THE FIRST TIME IN 9 DAYS MANY BUSINESSES AND WORKPLACES OPENED THEIR DOORS AND MANY BUSES WERE OPERATING. AFTER MANY DAYS IN WHICH MOST VEHICLES ON THE STREETS WERE AMBULANCES, OFFICIAL OR MILITARY VEHICLES, AND VEHICLES BELONGING TO NEWSMEN, THE CAPITAL AWAKENED TODAY TO HEAVY TRAFFIC WITH BUSES, TAXIS, TRUCKS, AND PRIVATE VEHICLES.</p><p>THE 24-HOUR "CURFEW" DECREED BY THE ARMED FORCES IN THE DENSELY POPULATED NEIGHBORHOODS OF AYUTUXTEPEQUE, CUSCATANCINGO, AND MEJICANOS IN THE NORTHWESTERN PART OF SAN SALVADOR WAS SUSPENDED, SALVADORAN PRESIDENT AFLREDO CRISTIANI ANNOUNCED ON TELEVISION LAST NIGHT.</p><p>THE "STATE OF SIEGE" AND "CURFEW," HOWEVER, WILL REMAIN IN EFFECT, FROM 1800 IN THE EVENING UNTIL 0600 IN THE MORNING.</p><p>IN TWO OUTLYING NEIGHBORHOODS OF THE CAPITAL, GUERRILLA REDOUBTS AND SOLDIERS HAVE CONTINUED TO CLASH, PARTICULARLY IN THE NEIGHBORHOODS OF APOPA, CIUDAD DELGADO, AND SOYAPANGO.</p><p>PRIVATE VEHICLES CANNOT OPERATE IN MUCH OF MEJICANOS NEIGHBORHOOD, ONE OF THE MAIN GUERRILLA BASTIONS LAST WEEK, AS A RESULT OF THE TRENCHES DUG BY THE REBELS AND DEBRIS PILED ON THE STREETS FROM DESTROYED BUILDINGS AND HOMES.</p><p>THE SITUATION IS ALSO RETURNING TO NORMAL IN SOME PARTS OF THE INTERIOR, EXCEPT FOR SOME CITIES SUCH AS SAN MIGUEL IN THE EAST AND ZACATECOLUCA IN THE SOUTH WHERE THERE IS STILL FIERCE FIGHTING IN WHICH ELITE ARMY UNITS ARE INVOLVED.</p><p>IN THE CAPITAL CITY, THE RED CROSS AND OTHER HUMANTARIAN ASSISTANCE ORGANIZATIONS ARE BEGINNING THE TASKS OF CLEANING UP THE RUBBLE AND REBUILDING THOUSANDS OF HOMES AFFECTED BY THE FIGHTING AND BOMBING, ACCORDING TO THE PRELIMINARY ASSESSMENTS. INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS SOURCES SAID THAT SOME 50,000 PERSONS HAVE HAD TO ABANDON THEIR HOMES AND ARE LODGED IN CHURCHES, STADIUMS, SCHOOLS, AND OTHER BUILDINGS SET UP AS TEMPORARY LODGINGS.</p><p>INTERNATIONAL EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE HAS ALSO BEGUN TO ARRIVE BRINGING FIRST AID FOR THE MANY CIVILIANS WHO WERE WOUNDED AND ARE BEING TREATED IN THE HOSPITALS WHERE HUNDREDS OF THE MORE THAN 1,000 WHO WERE TREATED LAST WEEK REMAIN, ACCORDING TO SALVADORAN HOSPITAL SOURCES.</p><p>PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANO REPORTED ON A RADIO AND TELEVISION NETWORK THAT "A FEW REDOUBTS" GUERRILLA REDOUBTS REMAIN, THAT THE ARMED FORCES HAVE CONTINUED TO ADVANCE, AND THAT "THE SITUATION WILL BE TOTALLY CONTROLLED SOON."</p><p>HE SAID THAT THE WAR VICTIMS WILL BE GIVEN ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE AND THAT HIS CABINET WILL IMPLEMENT "RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAMS," WITH WHICH HE INVITED THE PRIVATE SECTOR TO COOPERATE.</p><p>THE STATE RADIO IS CELEBRATING THE "DEFEAT OF THE RED HORDES" OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) IN A TONE OF RESOUNDING VICTORY, CONSTANTLY RENDERING TRIBUTE TO THE LEADERS AND SOLDIERS OF THE BATTALIONS THAT HAVE PARTICIPATED IN EXPELLING THE GUERRILLAS FROM THE CAPITAL AND OTHER CITIES.</p><p>"THE TERRORISTS FLED IN DISARRAY," ACCORDING TO THE STATE RADIO, WHICH COMMENTED ON THE MILITARY SITUATION THAT CIRCLES CLOSE TO THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] INTERPRETED AS A "TACTICAL WITHDRAWAL."</p><p>THE FIGHTING AND BOMBINGS IN THE CAPITAL AND OTHER PARTS OF THE COUNTRY HAVE LEFT A TOLL OF MORE THAN 1,000 DEAD, HUNDREDS WOUNDED, AND TENS OF THOUSANDS HOMELESS.</p></body></html>