<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1145"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1145"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1145</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1145 (UNISYS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY MODERATOR AND REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [CRISTIANI] AND, THEREFORE, IT DOES NOT SEEM LIKE IT IS A TOTAL ADVANCEMENT IN A DEMOCRATIC PROCESS, BECAUSE OBVIOUSLY IT IS NOT VERY DEMOCRATIC TO HAVE THE ARMED FORCES OF A COUNTRY UNDER THE CONTROL OF ONE OF ITS POLITICAL PARTIES. THE ARMED FORCES OF A COUNTRY SHOULD RESPOND TO THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS AND TO THE GOVERNMENT THAT IS LEGITIMATELY ELECTED BY THE PEOPLE. AND THEREFORE, THIS WOULD CURTAIL THE FREEDOM OF CHOICE OF THE NICARAGUAN PEOPLE IN TRYING TO CONTROL AND GOVERN THE COUNTRY, EVEN THOUGH IT IS NOT FROM THE POSITION OF BEING PRESIDENT OF THE COUNTRY. SECONDLY, I THINK THAT I HAVE MENTIONED BEFORE THAT IT IS NOT THE RESULT OF THE ELECTION THAT WILL CHANGE OUR ATTITUDE WITH RESPECT TO OUR DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH NICARAGUA, BUT RATHER THE ATTITUDE OF THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT WITH RESPECT TO AID TO THE FMLN, TO THE MARXIST GUERRILLAS IN EL SALVADOR. AND IN THIS CASE WE STILL HAVE NOT SEEN THAT CHANGE TAKING PLACE. OBVIOUSLY, WE FEEL THAT WITH MRS CHAMORRO AS PRESIDENT OF NICARAGUA THAT THIS AID WILL STOP AND THEREFORE MAKE IT EASIER FOR THE RESUMPTION OF NORMAL RELATIONS BETWEEN EL SALVADOR AND NICARAGUA, BUT IT IS THAT ATTITUDE THAT WOULD MAKE A CHANGE AND NOT NECESSARILY THE RESULT IN ITSELF.</p><p>WITH RESPECT TO THE THIRD QUESTION, OBVIOUSLY I THINK THAT IF MRS CHAMORRO REALLY IS IN CONTROL, IN TOTAL CONTROL, ESPECIALLY OF THE SANDINISTA ARMY, THAT THERE WILL BE A STOP IN AID, AND THEREFORE THE FMLN WOULD NOT HAVE NICARAGUA'S LOGISTICAL AND MILITARY SUPPORT FOR THEM. AND THEREFORE, THIS CERTAINLY AFFECTS THEM.</p><p>[REPORTER, IN ENGLISH] I THINK THAT ABOUT ONE WEEK AGO OR TWO WEEKS AGO IN THE WASHINGTON POST THERE WAS A REPORT THAT COLONEL BENAVIDES WAS LIVING A RATHER LUXURIOUS LIFE. I DO NOT KNOW IF YOU HAVE SEEN THAT PIECE. AND ALSO THE U.S. AMBASSADOR WILLIAM WALKER HAS SAID THAT HE FELT THAT IT WAS TIME THAT, WELL, THE ARTICLE IMPLIES THAT THERE WAS SOME PRESSURE, OR THERE WAS SOME PROTECTION COMING FROM THE TANDONA [REFERENCE TO THE 1966 GRADUATING CLASS OF THE CAPTAIN GENERAL GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY ACADEMY] TO PROTECT BENAVIDES, BECAUSE HE [WORDS INDISTINCT] THEIR MEN AND THAT SOME LOWER LIEUTENANTS WERE NOT GOING TO BE RECEIVING ANY SORT OF PROTECTION AND THEY MAY HAVE TO TAKE THE FAULT FOR WHAT HAS HAPPENED. AND ALSO WILLIAM WALKER HAD SAID THAT HE FELT THAT IT WAS TIME FOR SOME OF THE PEOPLE IN THE TANDONA TO STEP DOWN AND FOR OTHER OFFICERS TO MOVE UP. WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THAT [WORD INDISTINCT]? SHOULD THERE BE THAT KIND OF PRESSURE? SHOULD SOME OF THE GUYS IN THE TANDONA STEP DOWN FROM THEIR POSTS?</p><p>[CRISTIANI, IN ENGLISH] WELL, I THINK THAT IT IS NOT REALLY THE DETERMINING FACTOR WHETHER YOU BELONG TO A SPECIFIC GRADUATING CLASS WITHIN THE ARMED FORCES THAT SHOULD BE WHAT DETERMINES WHETHER YOU CONTINUE OR NOT, OR BE REMOVED OR NOT FROM THE ARMED FORCES. IT IS YOUR OWN PERFORMANCE AND YOUR OWN BEHAVIOR THAT SHOULD BE THE DETERMINING FACTOR.</p><p>SO, THEREFORE, IT IS NOT NECESSARILY THAT THE TANDONA PEOPLE, JUST FOR BEING MEMBERS OF THE GRADUATING CLASS, [CHUCKLES] THAT ACTION SHOULD BE TAKEN AGAINST THEM. SO I THINK THAT IN THAT CASE THAT IS NOT REALLY THE POINT.</p><p>WITH RESPECT TO THE OTHER CASE, I THINK IT IS NOW IN THE HANDS OF THE JUDICIAL SYSTEM IN THE COUNTRY ON HOW IT GOES, WHAT TYPE OF DEFENSE THOSE THAT HAVE BEEN ARRAIGNED HAVE. I THINK THAT THEY ALL ARE RECEIVING THE LEGAL SUPPORT IN THE CASE AND THE OTHER [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>[REPORTER, IN ENGLISH] AS FOR THE DIALOGUE WITH THE GUERRILLAS, BEFORE YOU LEFT FOR TAIWAN YOU CONDITIONED THE DIALOGUE ON A CEASING OF ACTS OF VIOLENCE. TO BE SPECIFIC, DOES THIS MEAN [WORDS INDISTINCT] ALL ACTS OF VIOLENCE? AND ALSO, WHEN DO YOU THINK THAT THIS DIALOGUE CAN ACTUALLY TAKE PLACE?</p><p>[CRISTIANI, IN ENGLISH] WELL, IF WE COULD TRY AND PUT INTO ONE BASKET AND CALL THAT BASKET WITH A NAME WITH RESPECT TO THE ACTIONS, WE ARE ASKING THE FMLN TO STOP TERRORIST ACTIVITIES, BECAUSE TERRORIST ACTIVITY IS AFFECTING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. YOU JUST MENTIONED THE FACT ABOUT A POLE THAT THEY USE FOR ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION IN THE COUNTRY. JUST LAST NIGHT THEY BLEW UP ONE AND THERE ARE TWO PEOPLE HURT. TWO CIVILIANS THAT WERE PASSING BY WERE HURT BY THAT EXPLOSION. SO THAT IS WHAT HAS TO STOP. THE FMLN HAS TO STOP ALL TERRORIST ACTIVITY, BECAUSE THAT IS THE ACTIVITY THAT HURTS THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. THAT IS NOT MILITARY ACTIVITY. THAT IS SOMETHING GEARED AGAINST OR TO CONFRONT THE ARMED FORCES. SO IT IS THAT VIOLENCE THAT CAN BE SUMMED UP IN WHAT IS CALLED TERRORISM THAT WE ARE ASKING FOR -- THOSE ACTIVITIES THAT REALLY AFFECT THE CIVILIAN POPULATION OF THE COUNTRY. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>