<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0898"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0898"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0898</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0898 (GTE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 29 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] WE HAVE LEARNED THAT THE GENERAL STAFF HAS ERECTED A HUMAN WALL, ERECTED BY COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, FOLLOWING THE ARTILLERY ATTACK STAGED BY US AT 0515 THIS MORNING ON THE GENERAL STAFF INSTALLATIONS. IT WAS REPORTED THAT HUNDREDS OF LITTLE SOLDIERS HAVE BEEN PLACED AS CANNON FODDER OUTSIDE THE GENERAL STAFF INSTALLATIONS. THIS GIVES US NEW INTELLIGENCE DATA ON THE MORALE OF COL PONCE, HOW THE CRISIS IS AFFECTING HIM. WITHOUT ANY MILITARY CRITERION, HE HAS PLACED A WALL OF SOLDIERS AROUND THE GENERAL STAFF INSTALATIONS. THIS IS A GOOD PIECE OF INTELLIGENCE GIVEN TO US BY COL PONCE, CONCERNING HIS PHYSICAL STATE AND CONCERNING THE UPSET BEING SUFFERED BY THE STRATEGIC ARMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF COMMAND.</p><p>WE CALL ON THE INHABITANTS OF THE COUNTRY CLUB, THE MAQUILIGUAS, SAN BENITO, AND ESCALON NEIGHBORHOODS TO IMMEDIATELY ABANDON THAT COMBAT ZONE. THE FIGHTING WILL GET WORSE AND THE AIR FORCE WILL BOMB THE FMLN POSITIONS IN SAN BENITO AND ESCALON NEIGHBORHOODS, THEREFORE ITS INHABITANTS ARE URGED TO ABANDON THAT RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>A REPORT FROM USULUTAN INDICATES AT THIS TIME THAT THE FMLN UNITS ARE ADVANCING AND FIGHTING IN THE SECTOR OF GAVIRIA, EL MANGUITO, AND LOS PILOTOS NEIGHBORHOODS IN THE CITY OF USULUTAN. ALSO, IN THE AREA OF SANTA ELENA THERE IS FIERCE FIGHTING.</p><p>YOUR ATTENTION PLEASE. WE HAVE ANOTHER REPORT FROM SAN SALVADOR. IMPORTANT INFORMATION IS BEING RECEIVED FROM LOMAS VERDES. IN THE STRATEGIC ZONE OF LOMAS VERDES IN THE NORTHWESTERN PART OF THE CAPITAL, AN ARMY ARMORED VEHICLE WAS DESTROYED AND ITS 50-CALIBER MACHINEGUN WAS SEIZED, AS WELL AS MANY RIFLES AND MACHINEGUNS FROM THE NATIONAL POLICE AND CAVALRY TROOPS. YOUR ATTENTION TO THIS REPORT FROM SAN SALVADOR. FIGHTING IN THE EXCLUSIVE LOMAS VERDES NEIGHBORHOOD INDICATES THAT AN ARMORED VEHICLE WAS DESTROYED. DURING THE FIGHTING A 50-CALIBER MACHINEGUN WAS SEIZED FROM THE DAMAGED ARMORED VEHICLE. IT IS BEING EMPLACED AND WILL BE USED AGAINST THE AIR FORCE HELICOPTERS AND AIRCRAFT THAT ARE OVERFLYING THE AREA.</p><p>SINCE 0000, WHEN THE FIGHTING BEGAN, TO 0940, WHEN WE RECEIVED THE REPORT OF THE FIGHTING IN LOMAS VERDES NEIGHBORHOOD IN THE WESTERN PART OF THE CAPITAL, NEAR ESCALON NEIGHBORHOOD, OUR FORCES HAVE DESTROYED AN ARMORED VEHICLE AND SEIZED IN COMBAT TWO M-60 MACHINEGUNS, 8 M-16 RIFLES, 1 M-79 GRENADE LAUNCHER, THREE VRC COMMUNICATION RADIOS, AND A 50-CALIBER MACHINEGUN SEIZED FROM THE ARMORED VEHICLE. THIS OCCURRED DURING THE FIGHTING WITH THE NATIONAL POLICE AND CAVALRY TROOPS, WHICH SUSTAINED 14 CASUALTIES.</p></body></html>