<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0198"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0198"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0198</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0198 (ADS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 3 MAY 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS TODAY DENIED HAVING CARRIED OUT A DYNAMITE ATTACK AGAINST A U.S. EMBASSY WAREHOUSE IN SAN SALVADOR, AN ATTACK OFFICIAL SOURCES HAVE BLAMED ON THE GUERRILLAS. THERE WERE NO INJURIES IN TUESDAY NIGHT'S ATTACK.</p><p>OFFICIAL SOURCES REPORT TODAY THAT URBAN GUERRILLAS THREW TWO EXPLOSIVE DEVICES FROM A VEHICLE AT THE SAN JORGE WAREHOUSE, A U.S. EMBASSY FACILITY IN THE SAN ANTONIO ABAD NEIGHBORHOOD IN NORTHWESTERN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>A FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) SPOKESMAN CLAIMED THAT THE ATTACK WAS "A CRUDE MANEUVER BY THE SALVADORAN ARMY AND THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA), WHICH WILL BE GOVERNING EL SALVADOR AS OF 1 JUNE, TO COMPLICATE THE GUERRILLA DELEGATION'S U.S. VISIT." THE REBEL SOURCE CONFIRMED AN FMLN DECISION FIRST ANNOUNCED 3 MONTHS AGO THAT NO U.S. DIPLOMATIC OR ECONOMIC FACILITY IN EL SALVADOR WILL BE CONSIDERED A MILITARY TARGET.</p><p>AN FMLN DELEGATION WILL MEET TODAY IN NEW YORK WITH UN ASSISTANT SECRETARY ALVARO DE SOTO AND PERMANENT UN REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE FRG, CANADA, AND SPAIN. MEMBERS OF THE POLITICAL DIPLOMATIC GUERRILLA DELEGATION, WHICH OBTAINED UNRESTRICTED VISAS, WILL ASK THE UNITED NATIONS TO PARTICIPATE MORE ACTIVELY IN THE SEARCH FOR A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE SALVADORAN ARMED CONFLICT. THE GUERRILLAS WILL ALSO ASK THE UNITED NATIONS TO REMAIN ALERT TO THE SITUATION AND TO EXERT PRESSURE ON THE FUTURE ARENA ADMINISTRATION -- TO BE HEADED BY RIGHTIST ALFREDO CRISTIANI -- TO ENSURE THAT IT RESPECTS HUMAN RIGHTS.</p><p>LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY PRESIDENT RICARDO ALVARENGA VALDIVIESO, AN ARENA MEMBER, DESCRIBED THE REBEL DELEGATION'S U.S. VISIT AS "DANGEROUS AND RIDICULOUS." "I REALLY DO NOT UNDERSTAND HOW THE UNITED STATES COULD GRANT VISAS TO TERRORISTS," ALVARENGA SAID IN REFERENCE TO THE U.S. GOVERNMENT'S DENIAL OF A VISA TO EXTREME RIGHT-WING DEPUTY ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON, WHO HAS BEEN LINKED TO THE DEATH SQUADS.</p><p>THE DELEGATION, WHOSE U.S. VISIT WILL LAST MORE THAN 8 DAYS, IS HEADED BY SALVADOR SAMAYOA, MIGUEL SAENZ, AND COMMANDER MERCEDES DEL CARMEN LETONA, ALSO KNOWN AS "LUISA."</p><p>U.S. EMBASSY OFFICIALS HAD DESTROYED THE CAMERAS OF THE LOCAL NEWSCAST "UP TO DATE," WHOSE REPORTERS ATTEMPTED TO PHOTOGRAPH THE SCENE OF THE ATTACK.</p></body></html>