<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0863"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0863"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0863</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0863 (GTE)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 24 NOV 89 (EL HERALDO) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [INFORMATION AND PRESS DIRECTORATE OF THE FOREIGN RELATIONS MINISTRY] [TEXT] THE INFORMATION AND PRESS DIRECTORATE OF THE FOREIGN RELATIONS MINISTRY HEREBY PUBLISHES A NOTE SENT TO NICARAGUAN FOREIGN MINISTER MIGUEL D'ESCOTO BY FOREIGN RELATIONS MINISTER CARLOS LOPEZ CONTRERAS. THE TEXT OF THE NOTE READS.</p><p>NOTE NO. 122-DSM</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 23 NOVEMBER 1989</p><p>HIS EXCELLENCY</p><p>MR MIGUEL D'ESCOTO BROCKMANN</p><p>FOREIGN MINISTER</p><p>MANAGUA, NICARAGUA</p><p>MR MINISTER:</p><p>MY GOVERNMENT HAS NOTED WITH GREAT CONCERN THE CONCENTRATION OF NICARAGUAN TROOPS AT VARIOUS POINTS OF THE BORDER WITH HONDURAS, AS WELL AS THE ANNOUNCEMENTS MADE BY NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT SPOKESMEN ABOUT BEGINNING MILITARY ACTIONS AGAINST THEIR ARMED OPPOSITION, REGARDLESS OF LOCATION.</p><p>TAKING INTO CONSIDERATION THE DANGER REPRESENTED BY THE CONCENTRATION OF TROOPS AT THE BORDER, MY GOVERNMENT HEREBY WARNS THAT IT IS A VIOLATION OF INTERNATIONAL LAW, PARTICULARLY TO INTER-AMERICAN LAW, TO RESORT TO THREATS OR THE USE OF FORCE AND TO VIOLATE THE SOVERIGNTY AND TERRITORIAL INTEGRITY OF OTHER STATES.</p><p>AS YOUR GOVERNMENT IS FULLY AWARE OF -- AND THIS HAS BEEN VERIFIED BY ON-SITE INSPECTIONS BY THE INTERNATIONAL COMMISSION OF SUPPORT AND VERIFICATION (CIAV) -- APPROXIMATELY 15,000 HONDURANS LIVE IN THE BORDER SECTOR CURRENTLY THREATENED BY THE SANDINIST PEOPLE'S ARMY AND ARTILLERY. THE SECURITY OF THOSE CITIZENS IS THE PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITY OF MY GOVERNMENT. HOWEVER, IN THAT SECTOR THERE ARE CAMPS OF DISARMED FORMER COMBATANTS FROM THE NICARAGUAN RESISTANCE [RN]. MANY OF THEM ARE WAR CRIPPLED AND THEIR RELATIVES, MOST OF WHOM ARE CHILDREN, WOMEN, AND THE ELDERLY.</p><p>TO CARRY OUT INDISCRIMINATE BOMBINGS AGAINST THE HONDURAN CIVILIAN POPULATION AND TO VIOLATE THAT SECTOR OF HONDURAN TERRITORY WOULD BE A BARBARIC ACTION AGAINST HUMANITY. IF YOU ARE REFERRING TO AN ALLEGED RIGHT TO CARY OUT MILITARY ACTIONS AGAINST YOUR ARMED OPPOSITION "NO MATTER WHERE THEY ARE," I REMIND YOU THAT THIS WOULD BE AN INTENTIONAL MASSACRE, BECAUSE MOST OF THE PEOPLE IN THAT AREA ARE CIVILIANS AND THE REST ARE DISARMED FORMER COMBATANTS. THIS SITUATION HAS BEEN VERIFIED BY THE CIAV.</p><p>THEREFORE, MY GOVERNMENT DEMANDS THE IMMEDIATE WITHDRAWAL OF THE NICARAGUAN TROOPS CONCENTRATED IN THE BORDER AREAS WITH HONDURAS. UP UNTIL THIS TIME, THE HONDURAN GOVERNMENT HAS NOT INCREASED THE NUMBER OF TROOPS WHO REGULARLY COMPOSE THE BORDER SECURITY FORCES.</p><p>NEVERTHELESS, MY GOVERNMENT IS NOT GIVING UP ITS RIGHT TO REPEL ANY ACTION THAT VIOLATES HONDURAN SOVEREIGNTY AND TERRITORIAL INTEGRITY AND TO CARRY OUT THE CONSULTATIONS IT DEEMS NECESSARY, TO ADOPT THE INDIVIDUAL OR COLLECTIVE DEFENSE MEASURES THE SITUATION REQUIRES.</p><p>MY GOVERNMENT ALSO WANTS TO STATE THAT IT VIEWS WITH ASTONISHMENT THE PROPOSAL PRESENTED BY THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT TO THE COUNTERREVOLUTION -- DURING THE TALKS PROMOTED BY THE CIAV IN THE UNITED STATES -- IN THE SENSE THAT THE NICARAGUAN INTERNAL ARMED CONFLICT BE SOLVED BY WITHDRAWING THE ARMED OPPOSITION TO HONDURAS. THIS PROPOSAL CLEARLY VIOLATES THE ESQUIPULAS II AGREEMENT AND THE AGREEMENTS SIGNED AT THE TELA SUMMIT, WHICH CONTAIN PROVISIONS FOR DEMOCRATIZATION, NATIONAL RECONCILIATION, DEMOBILIZATION, AND REPATRIATION. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>