<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0212"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0212"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0212</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0212 (ADS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 24 MAY 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] OUR ARMY IS ESSENTIALLY THE PEOPLE'S ARMY, BECAUSE IT WAS BORN OF THE PEOPLE. THROUGHOUT THESE MANY YEARS OF WAR, HUNDREDS OF COUNTRYMEN HAVE SPILLED THEIR BLOOD FOR THE LAND ON WHICH THEY TOIL TO ACHIEVE JUSTICE, DEMOCRACY, AND BETTER LIVING CONDITIONS FOR THE PEOPLE. THESE ARE THE PEOPLE'S MOST HEARTFELT DESIRES. IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST THE ENEMY, WE HAVE COMMITTED ERRORS IN MILITARY PROCEDURES THAT HAVE RESULTED IN CASUALTIES AMONG THE PEOPLE. TO QUICKLY AND RADICALLY CORRECT THESE REGRETTABLE PROCEDURAL ERRORS, THE FARBUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] GENERAL COMMAND ORDERS ALL COMMANDERS AND COMBATANTS OF OUR MILITARY UNITS TO STUDY AND IMPLEMENT THE FOLLOWING INSTRUCTIONS, WHICH MUST BE STRICTLY FULFILLED:</p><p>1. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCE MUST POPULATED AREAS BE MINED. MINES MUST BE PLACED WHERE ENEMY TROOPS TRAVEL. ALL PRECAUTIONS MUST BE TAKEN IN HIGHWAY AMBUSHES SO THE MINES WILL ONLY AFFECT ENEMY PATROLS AND TRANSPORT VEHICLES.</p><p>2. IN THE PLANS TO ATTACK ENEMY GARRISONS, THE COMMANDERS MUST ALWAYS EVALUATE THE CIVILIAN POPULATION'S SITUATION. EVERY EFFORT MUST BE MADE TO CARRY OUT CLEAN ATTACKS. IF THERE IS ANY POSSIBILITY, EVEN AFTER ALL ALTERNATIVES HAVE BEEN EXPLORED, THAT PERSONS HAVING NOTHING TO DO WITH THE ENEMY WOULD BE AFFECTED IF THE ATTACK IS CARRIED OUT, THE OPERATION MUST BE SUSPENDED.</p><p>3. BEFORE PUNISHING THE OWNERS OF PRIVATE VEHICLES AND BUSES WHO VIOLATE THE PROVISIONS OF THE TRANSPORTATION STOPPAGE, OUR UNITS MUST BE ABSOLUTELY SURE THE OWNER VIOLATED THE PROVISION.</p><p>4. IN CARRYING OUT SABOTAGE OPERATIONS, IT MUST BE CONSIDERED WHO WOULD BE AFFECTED BY THE ACTION. TO THE SAME EXTENT OUR SABOTAGE OPERATIONS MUST BE IMPLACABLE WITH THE REGIME AND THE OLIGARCHY, THOSE OPERATIONS MUST NOT AFFECT WORKERS, SMALL OWNERS, PEASANTS, OR THE LOWER CLASSES.</p><p>5. BEFORE CARRYING OUT EXECUTIONS, AN EXHAUSTIVE INVESTIGATION MUST BE CONDUCTED UNTIL IT IS CONFIRMED THAT THE TARGET OF THE OPERATION IS AN ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE.</p><p>6. ALL OUR MILITARY OPERATIONS, INCLUDING THE EXECUTIONS, MUST BE PUBLICLY RECOGNIZED SO AS TO AVOID CONFUSION WITH THE ENEMY'S DIRTY WAR PROCEDURES.</p><p>EVERY FMLN COMBATANT MUST BEAR IN MIND THAT WE ARE COMMITTED TO THE PEOPLE AND THAT OUR STRUGGLE IS OF THE PEOPLE AND FOR THE PEOPLE. THEREFORE, WE MUST ACT CONSISTENT WITH THIS REVOLUTIONARY PRINCIPLE.</p><p>[SIGNED] FMLN GENERAL COMMAND, MAY 1989</p></body></html>