<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0338"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0338"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0338</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0338 (BBN)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 9 AUG 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [REPORT] [ROSSIE CASTILLO] [TEXT] NATIONAL ASSEMBLY DEPUTY MAJOR ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON SAID TODAY THAT THE POSITION ADOPTED BY EL SALVADOR THROUGH PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI AT THE SUMMIT IN TELA, HONDURAS, IS POSITIVE BECAUSE EFFORTS ARE BEING MADE TO ACHIEVE PEACE IN CENTRAL AMERICA. HOWEVER, HE SAID THAT THE POSITION OF THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] WILL ACTUALLY BE VERY CRITICAL NOW. THE FMLN WILL NOT LOOK GOOD INTERNATIONALLY IF IT REJECTS THE DIALOGUE.</p><p>HERE IS AN EXCERPT OF D'AUBUISSON'S STATEMENTS, IN WHICH HE ALSO REVEALED THAT COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT OSCAR ARIAS HAS OFFERED TO MEDIATE THE DIALOGUE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [D'AUBUISSON, IN PROGRESS] ... FALLACIES. THIS IS NOT THE FIRST TIME THEY HAVE CLAIMED TO WANT SOMETHING AND ENDED UP DOING SOMETHING DIFFERENT. THEY ARE GOING TO TRY TO IMPROVE THEIR INTERNATIONAL IMAGE AND DO NOT WANT TO LOOK LIKE [WORD INDISTINCT] BEFORE THE LITTLE MANGY-DOGS WHO GO ABOUT PLANTING BOMBS HERE. THEY WANT TO DEMONSTRATE PERHAPS THAT THEY ALWAYS HOLD A HEGEMONIC POSITION HERE AND WILL TRY TO OBTAIN A BETTER NEGOTIATING POSITION FOR THEIR ILLEGAL FORCES, WHICH ARE STILL GOING AROUND [WORD INDISTINCT] AND KILLING PEOPLE [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>[CASTILLO] NEVERTHELESS, MAJOR, DO YOU VIEW THIS MEETING AS POSITIVE [WORD INDISTINCT] WITH THE FMLN -- THAT IS, THE DIALOGUE -- NOW THAT SOMETHING TANGIBLE HAS COME OUT OF THE SUMMIT? DO YOU THINK PEACE CAN BE ACHIEVED?</p><p>[D'AUBUISSON] THE OBJECTIVE OF ALL SALVADORANS -- AND IN THIS REGARD WE SPEAK FROM THE HEART -- IS TO ACHIEVE PEACE. IF THE FMLN COOPERATES, WE WELCOME ITS COOPERATION. HOWEVER, IF IT DOES NOT COOPERATE, THERE WILL BE FMLN MEMBERS WHO WILL DEMOBILIZE, THE SAME WAY SO MANY PEOPLE FROM THE [WORD INDISTINCT] ARE DESERTING. THESE PEOPLE HAD TO BE GIVEN GUARANTEES. WE WILL SEE LATER IF, AS THEY SAY, THEY ARE TRULY WORKING, OR STRUGGLING, FOR THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE [WORDS INDISTINCT] MORE POSITIVE ACTIONS.</p><p>HOWEVER, WE SEE EVERYTHING AS BEING WELL ON THE WAY TO ACHIEVING PEACE IN A SHORT TIME. [END RECORDING]</p><p>D'AUBUISSON SAID THAT IF THE FMLN DOES NOT AGREE TO THE DEMOBILIZATION, THE FMLN MEMBERS WILL BE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE IF PEACE IS NOT ACHIEVED. REGARDING THE COMMISSION, HE SAID IT IS ALREADY BEING ORGANIZED AND WILL BEGIN A DIALOGUE SOON.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [D'AUBUISSON, IN PROGRESS] ...A CONTINUOUS DIALOGUE TO FIND SOLUTIONS. THAT IS WHY PRESIDENT CRISTIANI HAS INSTRUCTED THAT IT HAVE NO PRIOR AGENDA BUT THAT IT JUST BEGIN. THEIR FIRST STEP SHOULD BE TO SIT DOWN AT A TABLE TO TALK, TO NEGOTIATE, TO ENGAGE IN DIALOGUE. AND THIS IS TO GO ON CONTINUOUSLY UNTIL SOLUTIONS ARE FOUND AND THEY ACHIEVE SOMETHING TANGIBLE, WHICH IS THE FINAL SOLUTION.</p><p>[REPORTER] [WORDS INDISTINCT]</p><p>[D'AUBUISSON] WELL, FOR EXAMPLE, COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT ARIAS HAS OFFERED TO ACT AS MEDIATOR OR INTERMEDIARY. HE SAID THAT IF THE COMMISSION GOES TO SAN JOSE, HE WILL TAKE IT UPON HIMSELF TO INVITE THESE GENTLEMEN TOO AND TO GIVE THEM WHATEVER THEY NEED FOR THIS MEETING TO BEGIN. AFTER THAT, THEY THEMSELVES WILL DEVELOP THE MECHANISMS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>MAJ D'AUBUISSON SAID THE COMMISSION WILL BE SWORN IN AND WILL MAINTAIN AN ONGOING DIALOGUE WITH THE FMLN REPRESENTATIVES.</p><p>COMMENTING ON LEGISLATIVE WORK, HE SAID THAT TODAY THE POLITICAL COMMITTEE WILL MEET TO ELECT THE PRESIDENT OF THE COMMISSION ON CORRUPTION, WHICH HAD BEEN SUBSTANTIALLY NEGLECTED BY DR JAIME VENTURA. THE ONLY CANDIDATE FOR THE PRESIDENCY OF THE COMMISSION ON CORRUPTION IS DEPUTY ROBERTO ANGULO, VICE PRESIDENT AND ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY.</p></body></html>