<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0642"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0642"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0642</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0642 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 5 NOV 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] IT HAS BEEN REPORTED IN THIS CAPITAL THAT A DELEGATION OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) WILL MEET THIS WEEK IN WASHINGTON WITH UN AND OAS REPRESENTATIVES TO ANALYZE THE COUNTRY'S SITUATION AND THE FUTURE OF THE TALKS BETWEEN THE REBELS AND ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S ADMINISTRATION.</p><p>COMMANDER LEONEL GONZALEZ, ONE OF THE FIVE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND MEMBERS, ISSUED A STATEMENT THROUGH RADIO VENCEREMOS -- THE OFFICIAL VOICE OF THE GUERRILLA ORGANIZATIONS -- AND SAID THAT THE MEETINGS WILL START TOMORROW 6 NOVEMBER.</p><p>OTHER FMLN DELEGATES WILL MEET TOMORROW WITH COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT OSCAR ARIAS, WHO HAS STATED HIS CONCERN REGARDING THE TALKS BETWEEN THE REBELS AND CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT AFTER RIGHT-WING SQUADS ASSASSINATED 10 LABOR LEADERS.</p><p>COMMANDER GONZALEZ SAID "THAT THE CRISTIANI ADMINISTRATION'S DOUBLE-FACED CONDUCT IS PRECLUDING THE POSSIBILITIES FOR ACHIEVING A PEACEFUL SOLUTION TO THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT."</p><p>"THE CRISTIANI ADMINISTRATION AND THE ARMY OPPOSE REAL NEGOTIATIONS, AND THEIR CONCEPT OF A DIALOGUE IS TO TALK AND TALK -- BUT ONLY TO GAIN TIME AND PROJECT A GOOD IMAGE AT THE NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL LEVEL," THE REBEL LEADER SAID.</p><p>REFERRING TO THIS, GONZALEZ ASSERTED THAT THE GOVERNMENT'S DECISION TO SEND ITS DELEGATION TO THE 20-21 NOVEMBER MEETING IN CARACAS, WHETHER THE GUERRILLA REPRESENTATIVES ATTEND IT OR NOT, IS AIMED AT "CREATING A SMOKE SCREEN TO COVER THE MASSACRES PERPETRATED THIS WEEK AGAINST THE PEOPLE'S MOVEMENT."</p><p>COMMANDER GONZALEZ ALSO REFERRED TO CRISTIANI'S ANNOUNCEMENT THAT A COMMISSION WILL BE CREATED WITH THE PARTICIPATION OF UN AND OAS DELEGATES TO INVESTIGATE THE 10 LABOR LEADERS' MASSACRE.</p><p>"IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO CARRY OUT AN INVESTIGATION WITH A CORRUPT JUDICIAL SYSTEM LIKE THE ONE IN EL SALVADOR ," GONZALEZ SAID. HE RECALLED THAT THE AUTHORITIES HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO SOLVE THE MURDER OF SAN SALVADOR ARCHBISHOP OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO IN 10 YEARS. THE GUERRILLA BLAMES MAJOR ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON, ONE OF THE GOVERNMENT PARTY'S IDEOLOGISTS, FOR ROMERO'S MURDER.</p><p>THE FMLN COMMANDER ALSO WARNED THAT THE ARMY "HAS LAUNCHED A CAMPAIGN TO CONFUSE NATIONAL AND WORLD OPINION BY ACCUSING THE GUERRILLAS OF PERPETRATING TERRORIST ACTIONS."</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES ACTUALLY WANT "TO COVER UP THEIR REPRESSIVE POLICY BECAUSE THEY HAVE SHIFTED FROM SELECTIVE ARRESTS TO MASS ARRESTS -- AND FROM GENOCIDE TO INDISCRIMINATE ATTACKS," HE ADDED.</p><p>THE GUERRILLA COMMANDER ALSO ANNOUNCED THAT THE GUERRILLA FORCES WILL MAINTAIN A HIGH LEVEL OF MILITARY ACTIONS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY AS LONG AS THERE IS NO POSSIBILITY OF CONTINUING A REAL DIALOGUE - NEGOTIATION PROCESS WHICH LEADS THE COUNTRY TO AN EVERLASTING PEACE.</p></body></html>