<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0742"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0742"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0742</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0742 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 14 NOV 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC SOURCES TODAY REVEALED THAT THE GUERRILLAS TRIED TO KIDNAP SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI AND OTHER OFFICIALS OF THE RIGHT-WING GOVERNMENT ON 11 NOVEMBER WHEN THEY LAUNCHED THE LARGEST MILITARY OFFENSIVE OF THE PAST 10 YEARS.</p><p>A NEIGHBOR OF THE PRESIDENT IN THE LUXURIOUS RESIDENTIAL AREA OF "MAQUILISHUAT," IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR, SAID THAT "THE GUERRILLAS MANAGED TO ENTER PRESIDENT CRISTIANI'S HOME, BUT COULD NOT KIDNAP HIM BECAUSE HE WAS NOT THERE."</p><p>LEADERS OF THE RULING NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA) HAVE CONFIRMED THAT GUERRILLAS OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) HAD PLANNED TO KIDNAP PRESIDENT CRISTIANI "BUT WE DO NOT KNOW FOR WHAT PURPOSE."</p><p>A RANKING OFFICIAL TOLD ACAN - EFE THAT "WE HAVE AGREED THAT IN THE EVENT OF A KIDNAPPING THERE WOULD BE NO RESCUE."</p><p>"EVER SINCE WE WERE INSTALLED IN GOVERNMENT WE KNEW THAT WE COULD END UP ON THE FLOOR (DEAD)," SAID AN OFFICIAL WHO ASKED TO REMAIN ANONYMOUS.</p><p>DIPLOMATIC CIRCLES ARE ALSO COMMENTING ON REPORTS REGARDING THE KIDNAPPING OF CRISTIANI AND TOP GOVERNMENT LEADERS. THEY CONFIRMED TO ACAN - EFE THAT THE GUERRILLAS WHO ATTACKED CRISTIANI'S RESIDENCE WERE WEARING MILITARY UNIFORMS.</p><p>SOME SOURCES MAINTAIN THAT THE DISGUISED GUERRILLAS SUBDUED PRESIDENTIAL RESIDENCE GUARDS AND ENTERED CRISTIANI'S HOME, BUT NEITHER THE PRESIDENT NOR ANY OF HIS RELATIVES WERE THERE.</p><p>SOURCES CLOSE TO THE PRESIDENT ASSURE THAT CRISTIANI, HIS WIFE MARGARITA, AND OTHER RELATIVES WERE AT A COUNTRYSIDE HOME IN "COATEPEQUE LAKE," HOWEVER, THIS CLAIM COULD NOT BE CONFIRMED.</p><p>MOST MINISTERS AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS WERE RESTING AT COUNTRYSIDE HOMES IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE COUNTRY, BUT CONGRESS PRESIDENT RICARDO VALDIVIESO AND VICE PRESIDENT ROBERTO ANGULO WERE IN THEIR RESPECTIVE HOMES WHEN THE GUERRILLAS ATTACKED AND BOTH OF THEM FOUGHT BACK WITH THEIR WEAPONS.</p><p>THE FMLN ON 11 NOVEMBER BEGAN A LARGE-SCALE MILITARY OFFENSIVE WHICH INCLUDED ATTACKS AT MORE THAN 50 POINTS NATIONWIDE, ESPECIALLY ARMY POSITIONS. THESE ATTACKS HAVE YIELDED ABOUT 1,000 CASUALTIES AMONG CIVILIANS, REBELS, AND SOLDIERS.</p><p>SOME SOURCES CLAIM THAT THE RESIDENCE OF JULIO ADOLFO REY PRENDES, LEADER OF THE AUTHENTIC CHRISTIAN MOVEMENT (MAC), WAS ALSO ATTACKED BY THE GUERRILLAS, BUT THIS REPORT HAS NOT YET BEEN CONFIRMED.</p><p>FIERCE FIGHTING BETWEEN THE ARMY AND GUERRILLAS, ESPECIALLY IN DENSELY POPULATED NEIGHBORHOODS IN NORTHEAST SAN SALVADOR, WHERE THE REBELS ARE ENTRENCHED, CONTINUES THREE DAYS AFTER THE OFFENSIVE BEGAN.</p><p>COMMANDER JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS, ONE OF THE FIVE TOP FMLN LEADERS, ANNOUNCED THAT 7 OF THE COUNTRY'S 14 DEPARTMENTS WERE DECLARED "FREED ZONES."</p><p>THE REBELS MAINTAIN THAT THE OFFENSIVE IS DESIGNED TO BRING THE GOVERNMENT AND FMLN "TO AN EQUAL FOOTING" IN SEEKING A NEGOTIATED POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE WAR CONFLICT.</p><p>A GUERRILLA WHO WAS INTERVIEWED BY ACAN - EFE IN A SAN SALVADOR NEIGHBORHOOD SAID THAT "THE OFFENSIVE AIMS TO TOPPLE PRESIDENT CRISTIANI AND DESTROY THE FASCIST REPRESSIVE PLAN."</p><p>SOME DIPLOMATS MAINTAIN THAT THE GOVERNMENT AND ARMY HAD BEEN EXPECTING THIS OFFENSIVE FOR SEVERAL MONTHS, BUT UNDERESTIMATED IT, BECAUSE THEY THOUGHT THAT THERE WOULD BE TWO OR THREE VIOLENT OUTBREAKS AND NOT A NATIONWIDE LARGE-SCALE OFFENSIVE SUCH AS THE ONE THAT BEGAN ON 11 NOVEMBER.</p><p>"WE CANNOT FIGURE OUT HOW THE GUERRILLAS MANAGED TO REACH CRISTIANI'S RESIDENCE," A SOURCE SAID.</p></body></html>