<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0432"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0432"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MEDELLIN"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0432</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0432 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>MEDELLIN, 5 SEP 89 (REUTER) -- [TEXT] A RADIO STATION NEWSMAN HAS REPORTED THAT AN ALLEGED SPOKESMAN FOR "THE EXTRADITABLES," A GROUP THAT CLAIMS TO BE LINKED TO THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE BURNING OF A RESTAURANT TODAY AND A 5 SEPTEMBER SHARPSHOOTER ATTACK AT THE LOCAL AIRPORT.</p><p>A NEWSMAN FROM RADIO CARACOL OF MEDELLIN REPORTED RECEIVING A TELEPHONE CALL FROM A MEMBER OF THE EXTRADITABLES CLAIMING RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE BURNING OF A COUNTRYSIDE RESTRAURANT. THE CALLER JUSTIFIED THIS ACTION BY SAYING THAT THE RESTARANTS' OWNERS PAID HOMAGE TO A MILITARY LEADER.</p><p>MEDELLIN, WHICH IS THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS' TRADING HEADQUARTERS IN COLOMBIA, WAS HIT BY A WAVE OF THREATS THAT TURNED OUT TO BE NOTHING BUT FALSE ALARMS THAT NEVERTHELESS PROMPTED THE POLICE TO CONSTANTLY PATROL THE CITY AND EVACUATE SHOPPING CENTERS IN SEARCH OF NONEXISTENT BOMBS.</p><p>WORKERS SAID THAT THE RESTAURANT, WHOSE OWNER WAS A FOLLOWER OF RECENTLY ASSASSINATED PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE LUIS CARLOS GALAN, WAS TORCHED BY RIFLE-TOTING YOUTHS.</p><p>THEY LOCKED FOUR WORKERS IN AN OFFICE UNTIL THE FIRE STARTED. THE RESTAURANT SUFFERED 20 MILLION PESOS ($50,000) IN LOSES.</p><p>HE ALSO SAID THAT THE EXTRADITABLES ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR AN ATTACK ON 5 SEPTEMBER IN WHICH A MAN DRESSED IN COMBAT GEAR FIRED AN AUTOMATIC RIFLE AT INDUSTRIALISTS AND BUSINESSMEN AT THE MEDELLIN AIRPORT.</p><p>THE SHARPSHOOTER, WHO WAS SHOT BY POLICEMEN, MANAGED TO KILL 1 PERSON AND WOUND 12 OTHERS. THE ANONYMOUS CALLER GAVE NO EXPLANATION FOR THE ATTACK, A CARACOL NEWSMAN TOLD REUTER.</p><p>TWO WEEKS AGO THE EXTRADITABLES DECLARED "TOTAL WAR" AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO AFTER HE LAUNCHED A CAMPAIGN TO REPRESS THE DRUG BARONS IN WHICH 11,000 INDIVIDUALS WERE ARRESTED AND MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN PROPERTY OWNED BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS WERE CONFISCATED.</p></body></html>