<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1249"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1249"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1249</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1249 (BOEING)</p><p>BOGOTA, 29 APR 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] FOLLOWING THE FUNERAL OF M-19 [19 APRIL MOVEMENT] PRESIDENT CARLOS PIZARRO LEONGOMEZ, THE GROUP'S NEW PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE ANTONIO NAVARRO WOLFF SAID THAT HIS GROUP WILL CONTINUE THE STRUGGLE FOR PEACE. THE M-19, THE ORGANIZATION THAT SIGNED A PEACE AGREEMENT WITH PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO'S GOVERNMENT ON 8 MARCH AND LAID DOWN ITS WEAPONS ON 9 MARCH TO BECOME A POLITICAL PARTY, SAID THAT IT WILL NOT PICK UP ITS WEAPONS AGAIN AS A RESULT OF THE MURDER OF THE 39-YEAR-OLD PIZARRO. PIZARRO WAS BURIED YESTERDAY. ONLY 50 DAYS AFTER REJOINING CIVILIAN LIFE FOLLOWING MORE THAN 20 YEARS OF ARMED STRUGGLE, PIZARRO BECAME A SYMBOL FOR PEACE, ALTHOUGH, ACCORDING TO COMMENTATORS, WITH HIS DEATH HIS KILLERS ARE ATTEMPTING TO DESTABILIZE THE COUNTRY.</p><p>WHEN ACCEPTING THE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION, ANTONIO NAVARRO WOLFF, A 42-YEAR-OLD ENGINEER, FORMER DEAN OF A UNIVERSITY, REBEL, AND THE OLDEST OF SEVEN BROTHERS AND SISTERS, SAID THAT HE WAS RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT FOR THAT COLOMBIA WHICH WANTS DEMOCRACY AND WISHES TO LIVE IN PEACE. THE NEW M-19 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE WAS FORCED TO SPEAK AND ACCEPT THE NOMINATION WHEN PIZARRO'S FUNERAL PROCESSION MADE A STOP AT THE HOME OF THE LIBERATOR SIMON BOLIVAR. HE SAID THAT THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE MUST UNITE TO MAKE HARMONY POSSIBLE, AND HE URGED EVERYONE TO CONTRIBUTE TO A FUTURE OF PEACE, A BETTER FUTURE FOR COMING GENERATIONS. SPEAKING BEFORE PIZARRO'S CASKET, WHICH WAS DRAPED WITH THE COLOMBIAN FLAG, NAVARRO, WHO IN 1985 SURVIVED AN ATTACK DURING WHICH HE LOST A LEG, SWORE TO FIGHT FOR PEACE AS PIZARRO HAD DONE.</p><p>THE THOUSANDS OF PERSONS WHO ATTENDED SATURDAY'S FUNERAL CARRIED PLACARDS WITH SLOGANS THAT READ: COMMANDER PIZARRO, WE CONTINUE FORWARD, AND COMRADE PIZARRO, WE ARE FOR PEACE, WE SWEAR. OTHERS WHO JOINED THE THOUSANDS OF VOICES ASKING NAVARRO TO ACCEPT THE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION BROKE THE SILENCE ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS TO CHANT: PIZARRO PRESENT, NAVARRO PRESIDENT.</p><p>PIZARRO'S MOTHER MARGOT DE PIZARRO, ALONG WITH HIS LADY FRIEND LAURA, SPOKE AT THE GRAVE SITE AND ASKED THE CROWD TO FIGHT FOR PEACE AS HE HAD ALWAYS DONE.</p><p>AT THE CEMETERY THE NEW PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE AGAIN ADDRESSED THE CROWD, WHO HAD FOLLOWED THE MORE THAN SEVEN-HOUR-LONG FUNERAL PROCESSION FROM THE CATHEDRAL TO SIMON BOLIVAR'S HOME AND THEN TO THE CEMETERY. HE SAID: TOGETHER WITH ALL THE GOOD COLOMBIANS, WE ARE GOING TO CHANGE THE COURSE OF HISTORY. HE ADDED THAT PIZARRO'S MURDER WAS USELESS BECAUSE THE M-19 WILL CONTINUE ITS STRUGGLE FOR PEACE.</p><p>PIZARRO'S FUNERAL WAS HELD IN BOGOTA. THE AUTHORITIES PRAISED THE FACT THAT NO INCIDENTS OR PUBLIC DISORDERS DEVELOPED DURING THE FUNERAL. THE M-19 LEADERS HAD ASKED THE PEOPLE TO REMAIN CALM.</p><p>THE NEW COLOMBIAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE IS THE SIXTH COMMANDER M-19 HAS HAD, THE SECOND SINCE THE REBEL GROUP ENTERED ITS NEW PHASE TO BECOME A POLITICAL PARTY. ANTONIO NAVARRO WOLFF WILL BE RUNNING AGAINST 12 OTHER CANDIDATES IN THE ELECTIONS SCHEDULED FOR 27 MAY.</p></body></html>