<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0308"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0308"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0308</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0308 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [CRISTIANI] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] SMUGGLING CAN BE HELD IN CHECK ONLY WITH MEASURES SUCH AS THESE. WE HAVE ALREADY BEGUN TO TAKE THE SEVEREST ACTIONS AGAINST THOSE WHO SMUGGLE MERCHANDISE INTO OUR COUNTRY. AN INVESTIGATION IS WELL UNDER WAY INTO A CORPORATION WHICH HAS BEEN SMUGGLING MERCHANDISE INTO OUR COUNTRY. THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS WILL SOON BE BROUGHT TO TRIAL IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW. WE WANT TO WARN ALL THOSE WHO SOMEHOW HAVE SMUGGLED OR WHO ARE PLANNING TO SMUGGLE THAT THEY SHOULD STOP THIS ACTIVITY. WE BELIEVE THAT SMUGGLING CONSTITUTES CORRUPTION AND THAT CORRUPTION IS A CRIME OF HIGH TREASON. WE CANNOT ALLOW CORRUPTION IN OUR COUNTRY. WE WILL TAKE HARSH ACTIONS AGAINST EVERY TYPE OF CORRUPTION, INCLUDING SMUGGLING. I AM ASKING THOSE WHO MIGHT BE APPROACHED BY UNSCRUPULOUS INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE IN THEIR POSSESSION SMUGGLED GOODS TO REFRAIN FROM PURCHASING THOSE PRODUCTS. LET US NOT PROMOTE SMUGGLING. I AM ASKING ALL GOOD SALVADORAN BUSINESSMEN NOT TO PURCHASE ANY SMUGGLED GOODS. SMUGGLING CONSTITUTES AN ATTACK AGAINST OUR HOMELAND AND ENCOURAGES CORRUPTION, WHICH MUST BE ERADICATED FROM OUR COUNTRY.</p><p>REGARDING OUR FISCAL POLICY, WE MUST TRY TO DETERMINE WAYS TO MORE DIRECTLY MAKE UP FOR THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN REVENUE AND DISBURSEMENTS IN THE COUNTRY. WE BELIEVE THAT WE CAN BRIDGE THIS FISCAL DEFICIT IN TWO WAYS -- WE MUST EITHER INCREASE OUR REVENUE OR LOWER OUR DISBURSEMENTS. THIS GOVERNMENT HAS ALREADY TAKEN AUSTERITY MEASURES REGARDING THE LATTER. THE GOVERNMENT HAS DETERMINED NOT ONLY TO MAINTAIN EXPENDITURES AT THE CURRENT LEVEL, BUT TO REDUCE THEM BY 15 PERCENT. WE WANT TO MAKE CLEAR THAT OUR GOVERNMENT'S AUSTERITY MEASURES MUST BE GENUINE AND SHOULD BE AIMED AT MAKING MORE EFFICIENT USE OF SCANT RESOURCES. THIS IS WHY WE ARE ASKING PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO UNDERSTAND THAT IF THE GOVERNMENT IS TO BE MORE EFFICIENT, THE GOVERNMENT MUST PROVIDE BETTER SERVICES FOR THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. AFTER ALL, IT IS THE PEOPLE WHO PAY OUR SALARIES AND PROVIDE THE REVENUE THAT ALLOWS THE GOVERNMENT TO OPERATE.</p><p>WE MUST SPEND OUR MONEY WISELY. ALL PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES MUST GUARD AGAINST CORRUPTION. WE MUST TAKE PAINS TO SERVE THE POPULATION AND TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF THE SERVICES THAT THE PEOPLE ARE RECEIVING AND DESERVE. ONLY WHEN THE GOVERNMENT IS RUN EFFICIENTLY, WHEN ITS ACTIONS ARE CRYSTAL CLEAR, WHEN THE GOVERNMENT RIDS ITSELF OF CORRUPTION, AND WHEN THE MONEY THAT THE TAXPAYERS PAY IS USED FOR THE GOOD OF THE PEOPLE, WILL WE BE ABLE TO ELICIT A POSITIVE REACTION FROM THE TAXPAYERS. THEY HAVE TO PAY TAXES. WHEN TAXES ARE SQUANDERED, MISUSED, OR STOLEN, NO ONE WILL PAY THEM WILLINGLY. IF WE, AS THE GOVERNMENT, ACT HONESTLY, SERVE THE NATION WELL, AND IMPLEMENT PROGRAMS TO BENEFIT THE MAJORITY, ONLY DISLOYAL SALVADORANS WILL BE UNWILLING TO PAY TAXES. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>