<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0971"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0971"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0971</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0971 (SRI)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 12 DEC 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN], WITH REGARD TO THE RESULTS OF THE EXTRAORDINARY MEETING OF CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS, REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>1. THE RESULTS OF THE PRESIDENTS' MEETING HAS ALLOWED US TO MEASURE THE DEPTH OF THE CRISIS IN EL SALVADOR AND THE IMPACT OF THE FMLN'S CURRENT MILITARY OFFENSIVE, INASMUCH AS THE SUMMIT'S ENTIRE EFFORT WAS AIMED AT SAVING THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT FROM AN EXTREME POLITICAL AND MILITARY CRISIS AND FROM INTERNATIONAL ISOLATION IN EXCHANGE FOR A NEW PROMISE ON THE IMMEDIATE DEMOBILIZATION OF THE NICARAGUAN CONTRAS.</p><p>2. THE FMLN INDIGNANTLY REJECTS THE PRESIDENTS' DECLARATION BECAUSE, CONTRARY TO THE DYNAMICS OF THE ENTIRE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, THE CLAMOR OF DEMOCRATIC AND SOCIAL FORCES, AND THE CLAMOR OF CHURCHES IN THE COUNTRY, THIS DECLARATION UNCONDITIONALLY SUPPORTS THE LEADING VIOLATOR OF HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE REGION, A GOVERNMENT THAT HAS MURDERED AND PERSECUTED THE CLERGY AND BOMBED THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. THIS SUPPORT ENCOURAGES THOSE WHO HAVE UNLEASHED THAT IRRATIONAL VIOLENCE AND ALLOWS MORE MURDERS IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>3. THE SAN JOSE AGREEMENT DOES NOT CONTRIBUTE TOWARD A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION IN EL SALVADOR. THE FMLN CANNOT BE DISBANDED AS THE RESULT OF AGREEMENTS BETWEEN GOVERNMENTS BECAUSE THE FMLN CONSTITUTES A GENUINELY POPULAR POWER THROUGHOUT THE SALVADORAN TERRITORY, A FORCE THAT THE HUGE U.S.-FINANCED WAR MACHINE HAS NOT BEEN ABLE TO STOP IN 10 YEARS.</p><p>4. AS HAS ALREADY BEEN SAID IN PRIVATE, THE FMLN AGREES WITH UN SECRETARY GENERAL JAVIER PEREZ' MEDIATION TO INITIATE SERIOUS NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE PARTICIPATION OF ALL OF THE COUNTRY'S POLITICAL AND SOCIAL FORCES.</p><p>5. WE ARE HEREBY CALLING FOR INTERNATIONAL SOLIDARITY SO OTHER COUNTRIES CAN MOBILIZE IMMEDIATELY TO DEFEND THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WHO ARE IN DANGER OF SUFFERING FROM AN ESCALATION IN EFFORTS TO EXTERMINATE IT BECAUSE THE FASCIST POLICY HAS BEEN REINFORCED BY THE SUPPORT THAT THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS' DECLARATION OFFERS TO CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT.</p><p>EL SALVADOR, 12 DECEMBER 1989.</p><p>FMLN GENERAL COMMAND</p><p>[SIGNED] COMMANDERS JOAQUIAN VILLALOBOS, FRANCISCO JOVEL, EDUARDO SANCHO, JORGE SHAFIK HANDAL, SALVADOR SANCHEZ CEREN</p></body></html>