<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0927"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0927"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0927</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0927 (SRI)</p><p>LIMA, 28 NOV 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] DELEGATES TO A LATIN AMERICAN CONGRESS THAT IS BEING HELD IN LIMA ON MISSING DETAINEES IN LATIN AMERICA TODAY EXPRESSED THEIR "CONCERN" THAT THE LARGEST NUMBER OF DETAINEES AND MISSING PEOPLE ARE TO BE FOUND IN THE COUNTRIES THAT HAVE DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENTS.</p><p>"WE BELIEVE THAT THERE ARE GROUPS THAT ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DISAPPEARANCES. THESE GROUPS ARE ORGANIZED BY THE STATE ITSELF TO GET RID OF ITS POLITICAL OPPONENTS AND THESE GROUPS ARE EQUIPPED WITH ALL THE RESOURCES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN ACTS OF IMPUNITY," SAID THE CONGRESS SPOKESPERSON.</p><p>ABOUT 200 DELEGATES FROM 12 LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES AND FROM EUROPEAN AND U.S. HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS ARE PARTICIPATING IN THE IX CONGRESS OF THE LATIN AMERICAN FEDERATION OF ASSOCIATIONS OF RELATIVES OF MISSING DETAINEES THAT BEGAN TODAY AND WILL END ON 30 NOVEMBER IN LIMA.</p><p>SOLA SIERRA, A MEMBER OF THE FEDERATION, HAS TOLD EFE THAT "THE ON THE ESCALATION OF THESE PRACTICES, AND ON THE IMPUNITY PREVAILING IN ALL COUNTRIES WHERE THIS METHOD OF REPRESSION PREVAILS."</p><p>SIERRA, A CHILEAN CITIZEN, SAID THAT THIS YEAR THE COUNTRIES WITH THE LARGEST NUMBER OF MISSING DETAINEES ARE COLOMBIA, EL SALVADOR, GUATEMALA, AND PERU, "WHERE POLITICAL VIOLENCE HAS INCREASED." HOWEVER, SHE FAILED TO MENTION THE NUMBER OF MISSING DETAINEES.</p><p>SIERRA, THE CHILEAN DELEGATE AND THE PRESIDENT OF THE CHILEAN ASSOCIATION OF RELATIVES OF MISSING PEOPLE, SAID THAT THERE IS NO TOTAL NUMBER OF MISSING PEOPLE, BUT THAT MORE THAN 100,000 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN REPORTED MISSING THROUGHOUT LATIN AMERICA SINCE 1981.</p><p>"THIS FIGURE HAS INCREASED AT A FRIGHTENING RATE, AND WE REGRET THAT THE LARGEST NUMBERS OF CASES HAVE BEEN REPORTED IN COUNTRIES WITH DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENTS," SHE ADDED.</p><p>SHE SAID THAT "NEITHER UNDER A DICTATORSHIP NOR UNDER A DEMOCRACY" HAS THE PROBLEM OF THE MISSING DETAINEES BEEN RESOLVED BECAUSE THE GOVERNMENT "ALWAYS MANAGE TO TALK ITS WAY OUT OF INVESTIGATING OR PUNISHING.</p><p>"(THE GOVERNMENTS) ARGUE THAT IT IS NECESSARY TO FORGET THE PAST IN ORDER TO BUILD THE PRESENT AND THAT IT IS NECESSARY TO RECONCILE IF PEACE IS TO PREVAIL. BUT HOW CAN THERE BE PEACE AND RECONCILIATION WHILE EXTREMELY SERIOUS EVENTS LIKE THE MASSIVE KILLING OF HUMAN BEINGS CONTINUE," SHE ADDED.</p><p>SIERRA REGRETTED THAT "THERE IS VERY STRONG PRESS CENSORSHIP, AND, WHAT IS WORSE, A SELF-IMPOSED CENSORSHIP [AUTOCENSURA]" IN THE COUNTRIES WHERE MOST MISSING DETAINEES HAVE BEEN REPORTED.</p><p>THESE SITUATIONS ALWAYS LEAD US TO BELIEVE THAT IT IS THE STATE THAT PROMOTES THIS ENTIRE POLICY, THAT IS TO SAY, THE USE OF STATE TERRORISM IN COUNTRIES WHERE A STATE OF LAW, COURTS, AND ESTABLISHED LEGAL PRACTICES PREVAIL, SIERRA COMMENTED.</p><p>IN TODAY'S SESSION, A MEMBER OF THE PERUVIAN DELEGATION SAID THAT OVER THE PAST 10 YEARS AT LEAST 4,000 PEOPLE, MOSTLY PEASANTS AND ANDEAN COMMUNITY LEADERS, WHO WERE "ARRESTED BY GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS WHO LATER DENIED IT," HAVE DISAPPEARED.</p><p>THE MEMBER OF THE PERUVIAN DELEGATION SAID THAT, ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL FIGURES, ABOUT 15,000 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KILLED AS A RESULT OF POLITICAL VIOLENCE IN PERU, AND THAT A "NEGLIGIBLE NUMBER" HAS BEEN KILLED IN CLASHES.</p></body></html>