<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0173"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0173"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0173</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0173 (BELLCORE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 14 APR 89 (TCS TELEVISION) -- [INTERVIEW WITH SALVADORAN PRESIDENT-ELECT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [TEXT] [BEGIN RECORDING] [REPORTER] YOU MENTIONED THE ATTACK ON THE RESIDENCE OF VICE PRESIDENT-ELECT FRANCISCO MERINO. WE WOULD LIKE YOU TO GIVE US SOME DETAILS ON THIS.</p><p>[CRISTIANI] AT APPROXIMATELY 0530 THIS MORNING, THREE EXPLOSIVES WERE HURLED AT HIS RESIDENCE FROM AN EMPTY LOT. THE EXPLOSIVES CAUSED EXTENSIVE DAMAGE TO THE RESIDENCE. THERE WAS RIFLE FIRE TOO, BUT THE RIFLE FIRE WAS ONLY TO DISTRACT SECURITY PERSONNEL IN THE AREA.</p><p>THE ATTACKERS ACTED LIKE ANIMALS. MR MERINO IS STILL IN THE UNITED STATES WITH HIS WIFE. HE WILL BE RETURNING THIS AFTERNOON. THEIR FOUR CHILDREN AND THREE OF THE CHILDREN'S FRIENDS WERE AT THE RESIDENCE WHEN THE ATTACK TOOK PLACE. THE CHILDREN COULD HAVE BEEN KILLED. THOSE WHO CARRIED OUT THIS ATTACK ARE PEOPLE WHO FOR A LONG TIME HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT HUMAN RIGHTS AND ABOUT INDISCRIMINATE BOMBINGS. THIS ATTACK ENDANGERED CIVILIANS. THANK GOODNESS ONLY ONE OF THE CHILDREN WAS WOUNDED. ONE OF THE GIRLS WHO WAS VISITING THE HOME WAS HIT BY SOME SHRAPNEL BUT THE WOUND IS NOT SERIOUS. RIGHT NOW WE ARE GETTING A DOCTOR TO EXAMINE THE CHILDREN TO SEE IF THEIR HEARING HAS BEEN DAMAGED BECAUSE TWO OF THE DEVICES EXPLODED IN THE BEDROOM THE CHILDREN WERE IN.</p><p>I BELIEVE THIS IS ANOTHER INDICATION THAT THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT], FAR FROM SEEKING PEACE AND WANTING PEACE FOR THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WANTS TO CONTINUE ITS TERRORISM, ITS KILLINGS -- ITS IRRATIONAL KILLINGS. I BELIEVE THAT LITTLE CAN BE ACHIEVED IN THE SEARCH FOR PEACE THROUGH DIALOGUE BECAUSE THESE PEOPLE ARE NOT SINCERE WHEN THEY CLAIM THAT THEY WANT TO RESOLVE THE PROBLEM.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ARE TIRED OF VIOLENCE. THEY STATED THEIR OPINION ON 19 MARCH. THE FMLN SHOULD THINK CAREFULLY BECAUSE THE PEOPLE HAVE FLATLY REJECTED VIOLENCE AND THE FMLN. I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT THE MEMBERS OF OUR PARTY WILL BE FRIGHTENED INTO ABANDONING THE STRUGGLE FOR THE CONSOLIDATION OF DEMOCRACY, WHICH IS SOMETHING THE PEOPLE WANT.</p><p>I BELIEVE THAT THOSE WHO WANT TO MAKE THE FMLN LOOK LIKE MARTYRS AND LIKE PERSONS WHO WORK FOR THE GOOD OF THE PEOPLE, SHOULD KNOW THE TRUTH: THEY ARE NOTHING BUT SAVAGES WHO LACK HUMAN QUALITIES AND WHO ARE INDISCRIMINATELY KILLING AND WOUNDING CIVILIANS WHO HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH THE CONFLICT. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>