<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1269"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1269"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1269</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1269 (BOEING)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 6 MAY 90 (DPA) -- [TEXT] CIVIL AERONAUTICS AUTHORITIES HAVE REPORTED THAT FOUR PLANE ACCIDENTS HAVE BROUGHT DESTRUCTION AND DEATH TO GUATEMALA IN LESS THAN 24 HOURS.</p><p>THE MOST SERIOUS ACCIDENT TOOK PLACE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD JUST OUTSIDE THE CAPITAL WHEN A CARGO PLANE THAT HAD JUST TAKEN OFF FROM THE LA AURORA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT CRASHED INTO A RESIDENTIAL AREA DESTROYING SEVERAL HOMES AND KILLING 17 PEOPLE INCLUDING CHILDREN.</p><p>A SECOND ACCIDENT OCCURRED WHEN A SMALL PLANE HAD TO MAKE AN EMERGENCY LANDING IN RABINAL, IN THE NORTHERN PART OF THE COUNTRY. IN THIS ACCIDENT THE PILOT WAS INJURED.</p><p>IN A THIRD ACCIDENT, A PLANE THAT HAD MANEUVERED ON THE RUNWAY OF THE LA AURORA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT TURNED OVER AND CRASHED. THE PLANE WAS SEVERELY DAMAGED AND THE PILOT AND MEMBERS OF THE CREW WERE INJURED.</p><p>IN A FOURTH ACCIDENT, A HELICOPTER OF THE PRESIDENTIAL STAFF HAD TECHNICAL PROBLEMS AND WAS FORCED TO MAKE AN EMERGENCY LANDING.</p><p>DETAILS OF THE LAST THREE ACCIDENTS WERE NOT YET KNOWN. THESE ACCIDENTS HAVE MADE THIS THE WORST DAY FOR GUATEMALAN AVIATION IN RECENT YEARS.</p></body></html>