<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0622"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0622"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-31"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0622</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0622 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 31 OCT 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] MEDICAL SOURCES HAVE ANNOUNCED THAT OPPOSITION LABOR LEADER FEBE ELIZABETH VELAZQUEZ DIED IN A HOSPITAL THIS AFTERNOON AS A RESULT OF THE DYNAMITE ATTACK AGAINST THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION (FENASTRAS).</p><p>THE LABOR LEADER DIED IN THE OPERATING ROOM OF THE HOSPITAL WHERE SHE WAS TAKEN AFTER UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUALS THIS AFTERNOON PLACED A POWERFUL EXPLOSIVE DEVICE AT FENASTRAS HEADQUARTERS, WHICH LEFT 7 OTHER PEOPLE DEAD AND 30 INJURED.</p><p>HOSPITAL SOURCES CONFIRMED AT 1545 (2145 GMT) THAT FEBE VELAZQUEZ, AGE 27 AND THE MOTHER OF THREE, DIED FROM SEVERE SKULL INJURIES.</p><p>MEANWHILE, A SALVADORAN RADIO STATION ANNOUNCED THAT UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUALS THIS AFTERNOON LEVELLED MACHINEGUN FIRE AT A WATCHMAN, WHOSE IDENTITY WAS NOT DISCLOSED, IN A NEIGHBORHOOD IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>THIS MORNING, A CIVILIAN EMPLOYEE AT THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE WAS SHOT TO DEATH IN THE MIRALVALLE NEIGHBORHOOD, ALSO IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>SO FAR NO ORGANIZATION HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THESE TWO MURDERS OR FOR THE PLACEMENT OF THE EXPLOSIVE DEVICE THAT DESTROYED THE FENASTRAS HEADQUARTERS.</p><p>AN AMERICAN IDENTIFIED AS MIKE HAMMER, WHO WAS INJURED IN THE ATTACK PERPETRATED BY UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUALS [AT FENASTRAS HEADQUARTERS], WAS TAKEN TO THE OPERATING ROOM THIS AFTERNOON.</p><p>THE LEADING OPPOSITION UNIONS AND NON-GOVERNMENT HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS WILL HOLD A NEWS CONFERENCE THIS AFTERNOON AT THE SITE OF THIS MORNING'S ATTACK.</p></body></html>