<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0652"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0652"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY (HONDURAS)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0652</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0652 (GE)</p><p>NO CITY (HONDURAS), 8 NOV 89 -- [INTERVIEW WITH AZCONA BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [REPORTER] NICARAGUA SAYS THAT THE HONDURAN ARMY IS MOVING THE CONTRAS TO OLANCHO THIS WEEK SO THEY WILL ESCAPE INSPECTION BY [WORD INDISTINCT].</p><p>[AZCONA] NO, NO, NO. THE HONDURAN ARMY HAS NO RELATIONSHIP, NO CONTACTS, WITH THE COUNTERREVOLUTIONARIES. [WORDS INDISTINCT]</p><p>[REPORTER] MR PRESIDENT, WHAT IS YOUR OPINION OF CARLOS FLORES' SPEECH IN...[CHANGES THOUGHT] WHICH HAS BEEN SEVERELY CRITICIZED BY SOME AND PRAISED BY OTHERS [WORDS INDISTINCT]?</p><p>[AZCONA] I THINK IT WAS A GOOD SPEECH. IT IS DIRECTLY IN LINE WITH WHAT I HAVE SAID; THAT IS, THAT THE IMF'S PRESCRIPTIONS CANNOT BE ACCEPTED AND APPLIED TO THIS COUNTRY, FOR INSTANCE, BECAUSE THE PEOPLE WILL NOT PUT UP WITH MEASURES LIKE THOSE WHICH HAVE BEEN PROPOSED BY THE IMF AND ENDORSED BY HONDURAN PRIVATE ENTERPRISE.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT ABOUT FLORES' STATEMENTS SAYING THAT RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES WILL BE DIFFERENT IN HIS GOVERNMENT?</p><p>[AZCONA] I DO NOT KNOW. THE RELATIONS WITH MY GOVERNMENT HAVE BEEN RELATIONS OF TOTAL UNITY. I THINK HE WAS NOT REFERRING TO THIS ADMINISTRATION. HE MUST HAVE BEEN REFERRING TO A PREVIOUS</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[AZCONA] NO. I AM NOT BEING PRESSURED. WHAT I SAID THE OTHER DAY HAS BEEN MISINTERPRETED. WHEN I SAID I NEEDED OXYGEN, IT WAS NOT OXYGEN THAT NEWSMEN, OR BUSINESSMEN, OR INTELLECTUALS WERE GOING TO GIVE ME. I WAS GOING TO GIVE MYSELF THE OXYGEN BY NOT VETOING AN AMENDMENT TO THE LAW ON ELECTIONS THAT INCREASES THE POLITICAL DEBT AND [WORDS INDISTINCT] PER VOTE, PITTING THE PARTIES AGAINST EACH OTHER--MY PARTY AND THAT OF OUR ADVERSARY. IN OTHER WORDS, I AM NOT ASKING FOR FAVORS FROM ANYONE OR ANY SUCH THING. I HAVE MY CHIN HELD HIGH. NOW, IF ANYBODY THROWS A BLOW AT ME I WILL RETURN IT IF I CAN. I WILL DO SO WITHIN THE BOUNDS OF NOBLENESS AND PROPRIETY, BUT I WILL RETURN IT. SO, IT IS NOT A QUESTION OF ME ASKING FOR OXYGEN. I AM QUITE AT EASE, NOT LIKE A MINI-EDITORIAL WRITER SAID THE OTHER DAY--EDITORIAL WRITERS CAN BE QUITE MEAN, YOU KNOW [LAUGHTER]--WHO SAID THAT I SLEPT LIKE A LOG THE FIRST 2 YEARS. I ALWAYS SLEEP LIKE A LOG [LAUGHTER] AND DO NOT [WORD INDISTINCT].</p><p>THOSE WHO THOUGHT THEY WOULD MAKE ME LEAVE HERE A PHYSICAL WRECK OR SOMETHING OF THAT SORT WILL NOT SUCCEED. I THINK HE IS THE ONE WHO CANNOT SLEEP LIKE A LOG WITH THE DIRTY CONSCIENCE HE MUST HAVE BECAUSE OF THE DREADFUL THINGS THAT ARE WRITTEN IN THOSE EDITORIALS.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR PRESIDENT, IT HAS BEEN LEARNED THAT AID HAS EVEN CUT THE AID FOR SMALL PROGRAMS, BECAUSE...[CHANGES THOUGHT] AND THAT HONDURAS HAS TO PAY OVER 2 MILLION [CURRENCY NOT SPECIFIED]...</p><p>[AZCONA] [INTERRUPTING] THAT IS NOT TRUE, NOT TRUE. ALL AID PROGRAMS ARE ONGOING. A FEW DAYS AGO, THE PRESS ALSO MADE AN IMPROPER INTERPRETATION WHEN I SAID THAT MILITARY AID WAS BEING CUT. NO. WHAT HAPPENS IS THAT, IN THE CASE OF AID, IF THERE IS A DELAY IN PAYMENTS OF OVER 1 YEAR ON ANY PROGRAM, THE DISBURSEMENTS OF ALL PROGRAMS ARE STOPPED. THERE WAS A PAYMENT CORRESPONDING TO MILITARY AID, OR MILITARY COMMITMENTS, THAT HAD NOT BEEN MADE. SO, WE HAD TO MAKE IT BECAUSE OTHERWISE THE DISBURSEMENTS NOT ONLY OF THE MILITARY SECTOR BUT OF ALL WOULD BE SUSPENDED. IN OTHER WORDS, ALL THAT IS COVERED, AND, AS I SAY, ALL THAT IS PROCEEDING QUITE WELL. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>