<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0657"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0657"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0657</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0657 (GE)</p><p>LIMA, 9 NOV 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] WITH JUST THREE DAYS TO GO BEFORE THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS SCHEDULED FOR 12 NOVEMBER, TERRORISTS HAVE STEPPED UP THEIR VIOLENCE AND SECURITY FORCES HAVE INTENSIFIED THEIR ANTISUBVERSIVE OPERATIONS IN SEVERAL PERUVIAN REGIONS.</p><p>SHINING PATH MEMBERS LAST NIGHT BOMBED AN OFFICE OF THE RULING AMERICAN POPULAR REVOLUTIONARY ALLIANCE (APRA) PARTY IN LIMA, INJURING FOUR PEOPLE, ONE OF THEM SERIOUSLY.</p><p>DURING THE ATTACK THE OFFICE WAS SET ON FIRE. AN EYEWITNESS SAID THAT SOME 150 ELECTORAL CARDS WERE BURNED. THE CARDS, WHICH ARE THE ONLY VALID DOCUMENT FOR PARTICIPATION IN THE ELECTIONS, HAD BEEN TAKEN TO THE PARTY OFFICE SO THAT THE VOTING STATION COULD BE DEFINED.</p><p>POLICE SOURCES HAVE REPORTED AT LEAST SIX BOMBINGS LAST NIGHT IN THE ANDEAN CITY OF AYACUCHO, 575 KM SOUTHEAST OF THE LIMA. THE SOURCES, HOWEVER, DID NOT MENTION THE BUILDINGS THAT WERE ATTACKED.</p><p>ON 7 NOVEMBER, SHINING PATH TERRORISTS BLEW UP 4 PYLONS IN THE VICINITY OF AYACUCHO, RAZING TO 17 THE NUMBER OF PYLONS THAT HAVE BEEN BLOWN UP BY THIS MAOIST ORGANIZATION IN AYACUCHO AND IN ZONES OF HUANCAVELICA DEPARTMENT IN THE PAST FEW DAYS.</p><p>A SHINING PATH "ELIMINATION COMMANDO" MURDERED A NATIONAL POLICE COMMANDER ON 7 NOVEMBER IN THE RESIDENTIAL LIMA DISTRICT OF MIRAFLORES. THE POLICE HAVE REPORTED A POWER OUTAGE IN TOWNS OF THE HUAYLAS VALLEY, IN THE MOUNTAINOUS REGION OF THE NORTHERN DEPARTMENT OF ANCASH, FOLLOWING THE DESTRUCTION OF TWO PYLONS.</p><p>IN ONE OF THE TOWNS -- RANRAHIRCA -- THE SOURCES SAID THAT THE SHINING PATH MEMBERS SET THE CITY HALL FACILITY ON FIRE, DESTROYING VALUABLE DOCUMENTS. IN LA OROYA, JUNIN DEPARTMENT, IN THE CENTRAL PERUVIAN MOUNTAIN RANGE, PUBLIC BUILDINGS WERE BOMBED AND A CAR-BOMB WAS DETONATED.</p><p>REPORTS RECEIVED FROM AYACUCHO AND FROM OTHER RURAL AREAS SAY THAT TERRORISTS ARE STOPPING VEHICLES IN HIGHWAYS AND THAT THEY ARE STRIPPING PASSENGERS OF THEIR ELECTORAL CARDS, WHICH THEY THEN DESTROY.</p><p>IN VIEW OF THIS ESCALATION OF VIOLENCE, THE GOVERNMENT ON 7 NOVEMBER DECREED A STATE OF EMERGENCY IN THE 10 PROVINCES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF LIMA, PLACING THEM UNDER MILITARY CONTROL. THIS IS THE PERUVIAN DEPARTMENT WITH THE LARGEST POPULATION AND WITH THE LARGEST NUMBER OF VOTERS. IT HAS MORE THAN 6,000,000 PEOPLE, AND INCLUDES THE PORT OF CALLAO.</p><p>ON 6 NOVEMBER, THE MILITARY AUTHORITIES IMPOSED A CURFEW BETWEEN 1000 AND 0500 IN THE DEPARTMENTS OF JUNIN AND PASCO IN THE CENTRAL MOUNTAIN RANGE. THE SAME MEASURE HAS ALREADY BEEN ENFORCED IN AYACUCHO, APURIMAC, AND HUANCAVELICA.</p><p>THE POLITICAL-MILITARY COMMAND OF THE AYACUCHO EMERGENCY ZONE LAST NIGHT ISSUED A COMMUNIQUE ENFORCING STRICT MEASURES THAT WILL BE OBSERVED BY THE PEOPLE DURING THE ELECTIONS.</p><p>THE COMMUNIQUE STATES THAT AS OF 13 NOVEMBER, THOSE ELECTORAL CARD THAT DO NOT BEAR THE SEAL THAT IS STAMPED AT THE VOTING STATIONS AND WHICH PROVES THAT THE BEARER HAS CAST HIS VOTE WILL BE ARRESTED AND "PLACED AT THE DISPOSAL OF THE COURTS."</p><p>IT ADDS THAT IF SOMEONE WANTS TO TRAVEL,TO MAKE ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENTS, TO OBTAIN DOCUMENTS, OR TO PERFORM COMMERCIAL TRANSACTIONS, THEY WILL HAVE TO SHOW THEIR ELECTORAL CARD WITH THE CORRESPONDING SEAL, UNDER PENALTY OF BEING FORBIDDEN TO PROCEED.</p><p>DURING A PRESS CONFERENCE YESTERDAY, THE TECHNICAL POLICE PRESENTED 27 ALLEGED SHINING PATH MEMBERS WHO WERE CAPTURED IN SOUTHERN LIMA PROVINCES AND IN ICA. THEY ARE CHARGED WITH BEING INVOLVED IN AT LEAST 40 ATTACKS AND MURDERS OF AUTHORITIES, AND WITH PLANNING FUTURE ATTACKS AGAINST ELECTORAL OFFICES AND CANDIDATES IN THE UPCOMING MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.</p><p>COMBINED MILITARY AND POLICE FORCES YESTERDAY RAIDED THE SAN FERNANDO SCHOOL OF MEDICINE OF THE LIMA UNIVERSITY OF SAN MARCOS, ARRESTING 600 PERSONS AND SEIZING EXPLOSIVES AND PROPAGANDA MATERIAL.</p><p>ON 6 NOVEMBER, DURING A SEARCH OF THE SAN MARCOS UNIVERSITY CAMPUS IN LIMA, THE POLICE SEIZED FIREARMS, EXPLOSIVES, AND TERRORIST PROPAGANDA MATERIAL.</p></body></html>