<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1084"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1084"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-31"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1084</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1084 (UNISYS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 31 JAN 90 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [REPORT] [TEXT] [ALFREDO VILLAREAL] COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHAIRMAN OF THE ARMED FORCES' JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF, TODAY POINTED OUT THAT THE COUNTRY'S SITUATION DOES NOT WARRANT LIFTING THE CURRENT STATE OF SIEGE. THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY IS EXPECTED TO DISCUSS WHETHER TO CONTINUE THIS MEASURE NEXT WEEK.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PONCE] OUR STANCE IS COMPLETELY OFFENSIVE THROUGHOUT OUR NATIONAL TERRITORY. WE WILL MAINTAIN THIS POLICY WHETHER THERE IS A STATE OF SIEGE OR NOT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE TOP MILITARY LEADER COMMENTED ON THE DECISION THAT THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY MUST MAKE ON 8 FEBRUARY. COL PONCE SAID THAT THIS IS A POLITICAL DECISION AND WHATEVER THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY DECIDES WILL BE RESPECTED BY THE ARMED FORCES. HOWEVER, HE NOTED THAT FULL GUARANTEES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY WOULD BE NONEXISTENT IF THIS MEASURE IS REPEALED.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PONCE] WE WILL RESPECT THE DECISION OF THE INSTITUTIONS TASKED WITH MAKING THE DECISION. WE BELIEVE THAT THE SITUATION IS NOT YET NORMAL ENOUGH TO WARRANT THE LIFTING OF THE STATE OF SIEGE. HOWEVER, THE DECISION IS IN THE HANDS OF THE ASSEMBLY OR THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHY DO YOU BELIEVE THAT THERE ARE NO CONDITIONS FOR LIFTING THE STATE OF SIEGE?</p><p>[PONCE] THE PLANS OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN]. THE FMLN PLANS TO CONTINUE ITS TERRORIST, SELECTIVE, AND INDISCRIMINATE ACTIONS, AND ITS ATTACKS IN THE CAPITAL AND THE COUNTRYSIDE. I BELIEVE THAT THERE ARE NO CONDITIONS. THE SITUATION IS NOT YET NORMAL. [END RECORDING]</p><p>AS FOR AN OFFENSIVE THAT THE FMLN HAD PLANNED FOR LAST WEEK, THE MILITARY LEADER SAID THAT IT WAS FOILED BECAUSE ARMY INTELLIGENCE DETECTED IT IN TIME. COL PONCE ADDED THAT THE MOST RECENT GUERRILLA ATTACKS IN THE CAPITAL AIM TO FRIGHTEN CIVILIANS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PONCE] WE BELIEVE THAT THE FMLN IS SEEKING TO MAINTAIN A PSYCHOLOGY OF FEAR AND COMPLETE INSECURITY AND DISTRUST AMONG THE POPULATION, BECAUSE THIS WORKS IN THEIR FAVOR. THEY ARE INVOLVED IN A PURELY TERRORIST, SELECTIVE, AND INDISCRIMINATE SCHEME. I HAVE MENTIONED THE INDISCRIMINATE NATURE BEFORE. THEIR RECENT ATTACKS ARE SELECTIVE. THEY SEEK TO DESTABILIZE THE GOVERNMENT, CREATE DISTRUST IN THE GOVERNMENT, AND CREATE INSECURITY. [END RECORDING]</p><p>AS FOR THE VICTORIA AND MARTILLO OPERATIONS, COL PONCE SAID THAT THE FMLN HAD SUSTAINED 2,352 DEAD FROM 11 NOVEMBER 1989 TO 30 JANUARY 1990, AND HE REGRETTED THE DEATH OF 537 ARMY TROOPS.</p></body></html>