<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0604"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0604"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0604</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0604 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 24 OCT 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 2) -- [REPORT] [PILAR CALDERON] [TEXT] THE GOVERNMENT SAID TODAY THAT IT WILL CONTINUE TO EXTRADITE COLOMBIAN CITIZENS SOUGHT BY THE UNITED STATES. THE GOVERNMENT WILL USE ADMINISTRATIVE CHANNELS BECAUSE THERE IS CURRENTLY NO EXTRADITION TREATY WITH THAT COUNTRY.</p><p>IN A COMMUNIQUE ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL, THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH ALSO DENIED ANY POSSIBILITY OF PARTICIPATING IN A DIALOGUE WITH DRUG TRAFFICKERS.</p><p>THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL'S COMMUNIQUE STATES THAT THE GOVERNMENT POLICY IS TO STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG-TRAFFICKING GROUPS AND THEIR CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS. THE COMMUNIQUE ADDS THAT THE POLICY ALLOWS NO ROOM FOR TRANSACTIONS, NEGOTIATIONS, OR DIALOGUES. THEREFORE, THE GOVERNMENT REJECTS ANY PROPOSAL TO MEDIATE WITH DRUG TRAFFICKERS -- EVEN IF THE PROPOSAL IS DIRECTLY ISSUED BY THE EXTRADITABLES OR THEIR SPOKESMEN.</p><p>THE COMMUNIQUE STATES THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS ANNOUNCED THAT IT WILL CONTINUE TO ENFORCE LEGISLATIVE DECREE 18-60 OF 1989, WHICH ALLOWS FOR EXTRADITIONS THROUGH ADMINISTRATIVE CHANNELS. THIS DECREE WAS UNANIMOUSLY APPROVED BY THE SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE.</p><p>THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL JUSTIFIES ITS DECISION BY RECALLING THE MANY ACTS OF TERRORISM PERPETRATED BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS -- 222 IN 2 MONTHS -- AND THE NAMES OF THE VICTIMS. THE COMMUNIQUE SAYS THAT THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS ARE NOW TRYING TO DISGUISE THEIR CRIMINAL POSITIONS BY CLAIMING THAT THEY ADVOCATE PEACE.</p><p>THE DISCUSSIONS ABOUT THE ENFORCEMENT OR SUSPENSION OF COLOMBIAN CITIZENS' EXTRADITION WAS THE MAIN TOPIC DISCUSSED TODAY IN JURIDICAL AND POLITICAL CIRCLES IN OUR COUNTRY AND IN THE UNITED STATES. JOURNALISTS AND LAWYERS CAREFULLY READ THE SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE'S RULING ON THE DECREE ALLOWING FOR EXTRADITIONS THROUGH ADMINISTRATIVE CHANNELS. EVERYONE WANTED TO KNOW WHY THE EXTRADITABLES SAID, IN A LETTER ISSUED YESTERDAY, THAT THEY FULLY ABIDED BY THE COURT'S RULING.</p><p>THE COURT RULED THAT, ALTHOUGH THE EXTRADITIONS VIA ADMINISTRATIVE CHANNELS ARE ALLOWED BY THE CONSTITUTION IN CASES WHERE THERE IS ALREADY AN INTERNATIONAL TREATY, THE EXTRADITION MUST BE CARRIED OUT ACCORDING TO THE TREATY. THE COURT BELIEVES THAT THE RULING IS QUITE CLEAR.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [GOVERNMENT MINISTER CARLOS LEMOS] THE GOVERNMENT MUST DECIDE IF THERE IS A TREATY WITH THE UNITED STATES OR NOT BEFORE IT ENFORCES THE EXTRADITION THROUGH ADMINISTRATIVE CHANNELS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>NEVERTHELESS, THE COURT'S RULING DOES NOT END THE EXTRADITIONS TO THE UNITED STATES BECAUSE, EVEN THOUGH THE COURT BELIEVES THAT AN EXTRADITION TREATY IS STILL IN EFFECT WITH THAT COUNTRY -- THE ONE SIGNED IN 1888 -- AND THAT IT SHOULD BE ENFORCED INSTEAD OF RESORTING TO EXTRADITIONS THROUGH ADMINISTRATIVE CHANNELS, THE GOVERNMENT CLEARLY SAYS THERE IS NO EXTRADITION TREATY WITH THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [GOVERNMENT MINISTER CARLOS LEMOS] THE 1979 TREATY HAD BEEN ANNULLED BY THE SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE, BUT ACCORDING TO THE STATE COUNCIL, THAT TREATY REPLACED -- SO TO SPEAK -- THE 1933 TREATY SIGNED IN MONTEVIDEO AND THE 1888 TREATY. THEREFORE, THINGS ARE NOW THE SAME AS YESTERDAY OR THE DAY BEFORE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE BODYGUARD OF EL ESPECTADOR'S CHIEF OF DISTRIBUTION IN MEDELLIN, PEDRO LUIS OSORIO, WAS ASSASSINATED THIS AFTERNOON IN A DOWNTOWN AREA OF ANTIOQUIA'S CAPITAL.</p></body></html>