<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1165"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1165"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1165</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1165 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 11 MAR 90 (DPA) -- [TEXT] CESAR GAVIRIA TRUJILLO, A 43-YEAR-OLD ECONOMIST, BECAME THE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE OF THE RULING COLOMBIAN LIBERAL PARTY TODAY BY A WIDE MARGIN OF 60 PERCENT IN THE "POPULAR CONSULTATION," AN ELECTION HELD AT THE SAME TIME AS THE LEGISLATIVE AND MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS, THE RADIO STATION NETWORK CARACOL REPORTED TODAY. THE RESULTS WERE REPORTED ONLY A FEW MINUTES AFTER THE ELECTIONS ENDED AT 1600 (2100 GMT) IN A RELATIVELY CALM CLIMATE.</p><p>SIMULTANEOUSLY, A PRIVATE POLLING CONCERN THAT CONDUCTED A SURVEY IN NEARLY 90 PERCENT OF THE COUNTRY'S VOTING PRECINCTS ANNOUNCED THAT LIBERAL PARTY CANDIDATE JUAN MARTIN CAICEDO WAS ELECTED THE NEW MAYOR OF BOGOTA AND ANOTHER LIBERAL PARTY MEMBER, OMAR FLOREZ VELEZ, WILL BECOME THE MAYOR OF MEDELLIN, COLOMBIA'S SECOND LARGEST CITY.</p><p>THE FIRST RESULTS, WHICH ARE NOT OFFICIAL, WERE RELEASED BY THE ELECTRONIC MEDIA AFTER THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE FIRST TIME IN COLOMBIA'S HISTORY GAVE THEM PERMISSION TO ANNOUNCE ELECTION FIGURES BEFORE THE OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENTS OF THE CIVIL REGISTRATION OFFICE, THE STATE AGENCY IN CHARGE OF COUNTING HE VOTES.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE REPORT, GAVIRIA LED HIS OPPONENTS BY A WIDE MARGIN. ERNESTO SAMPER PIZANO RECEIVED 18 PERCENT, HERNANDO DURAN DUSSAN, 15 PERCENT; ALBERTO SANTOFIMIO BOTERO, FOUR PERCENT; WILLIAM JARAMILLO GOMEZ, TWO PERCENT; AND JAIME CASTRO CASTRO, ONE PERCENT.</p><p>GAVIRIA, WHO WAS ALWAYS A FAVORITE IN THE POLLS, REPLACED SENATOR LUIS CARLOS GALAN AS THE LIBERAL PARTY'S PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE. GALAN WAS ASSASSINATED BY THE CRIMINAL DRUG TRAFFICKING MAFIAS LAST YEAR.</p></body></html>