<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0272"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0272"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0272</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0272 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 2 JUL 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] FOUR COLOMBIAN LEFTIST GUERRILLA GROUPS ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT THEY ARE WILLING TO PROMOTE A DIRECT PEACE DIALOGUE WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO, THIS WILL BRING TO FIVE THE NUMBER OF REBEL GROUPS THAT HAVE REPORTEDLY ACCEPTED THE PEACE PROPOSAL THE COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT MADE IN SEPTEMBER 1988.</p><p>THE LEFTIST M-19 [19 APRIL MOVEMENT], WHICH APPEARED IN THE MID-1970'S, KIDNAPPED 20 AMBASSADORS IN AN ATTACK ON THE DOMINICAN EMBASSY IN BOGOTA, AND OCCUPIED THE JUSTICE PALACE IN NOVEMBER 1985 -- AN ACTION THAT RESULTED IN THE DEATHS OF 100 PEOPLE -- HAS BEEN HOLDING PEACE TALKS WITH THE BARCO GOVERNMENT SINCE DECEMBER.</p><p>BOGOTA'S RADIO CADENA NACIONAL REPORTED THAT THE REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (FARC, COMMUNIST), THE MARXIST-LENINIST POPULAR LIBERATION ARMY (EPL), THE INDIAN QUINTIN LAME COMMANDO UNIT, AND THE REVOLUTIONARY WORKERS PARTY (PRT) ATTENDED A GUERRILLA SUMMIT HELD IN THE PARAMO DE SUMAPAZ MOUNTAINS, IN SOUTHWEST BOGOTA, THIS WEEKEND.</p><p>DURING THE GUERRILLA SUMMIT, THE FOURTH SINCE THE CREATION OF THE SIMON BOLIVAR GUERRILLA COORDINATING BOARD (CNGSM), A DOCUMENT WAS DRAFTED PROPOSING DIRECT DIALOGUE WITH THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE DOCUMENT BROADCAST BY RADIO CADENA NATIONAL, A DIALOGUE, SIMILAR TO THE ONE BEING HELD WITH M-19, "WOULD SERVE TO ESTABLISH THE NECESSARY CONDITIONS FOR PEACE AND NATIONAL HARMONY."</p><p>CONTRARY TO WHAT COULD HAVE BEEN EXPECTED, THE PROPOSAL WAS NOT SENT TO PRESIDENT BARCO, BUT TO MISAEL PASTRANA BORRERO, FORMER OPPOSITION SOCIAL CONSERVATIVE PARTY PRESIDENT WHO RULED FROM 1970 - 1974. PASTRANA IS A MEMBER OF A COMMISSION OF NOTABLES CREATED TO MEDIATE FOR PEACE. THIS COMMISSION SHOULD ANALYZE THE PROPOSAL AND PRESENT IT TO THE GOVERNMENT IN A FEW DAYS.</p><p>APPARENTLY ALSO PARTICIPATING IN THE SIMON BOLIVAR SUMMIT WERE DELEGATES OF M-19 AND THE ELN, A GROUP THAT HAS UNLEASHED A VIOLENT CAMPAIGN TO DESTROY THE OIL INDUSTRY INFRASTRUCTURE, PARTICULARLY THE LEADING CANO LIMON-COVENAS OIL PIPELINE THAT CROSSES THE COUNTRY EAST TO WEST AND COVERS NEARLY 800 KMS.</p><p>THE DOCUMENT STRESSES THE NEED TO REACH A PEACEFUL POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE ARMED CONFLICT, WHICH THE COUNTRY HAS HAD TO PUT UP WITH FOR THE PAST 40 YEARS.</p><p>THE SIGNATORIES OF THE DOCUMENT ASSERTED THAT "DIRECT DIALOGUE WITH THE GOVERNMENT IS ONE OF THE MECHANISMS THAT COULD LEAD TO A SOLUTION." THE GOVERNMENT MUST CARRY OUT ITS STRUGGLE AGAINST THE SO-CALLED PARAMILITARY (SELF-DEFENSE) GROUPS WITH EVEN MORE DETERMINATION, THE DOCUMENT SAID.</p><p>THEY ALSO DEMAND AN END TO THE "DIRTY WAR."</p><p>MEANWHILE, IT WAS LEARNED THAT FORMER PRESIDENT MISAEL PATRANA BORRERO HAS SUMMONED THE NOTABLES COMMISSION, COMPRISED OF FABIO ECHEVERRI CORREA, PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INDUSTRIALISTS (ANDI) AND CARDINAL MARIO REVOLLO CORREA, TO A MEETING ON MONDAY TO REVIEW THE DOCUMENT AND PRESENT IT TO PRESIDENT BARCO.</p><p>THE PROPOSAL PRESENTED BY THE FARC, THE EPL, THE QUINTIN LAME, AND THE PRT -- ORGANIZATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN ABIDING BY THE UNILATERAL TRUCE SINCE EARLY THIS YEAR -- LEAVES THE ELN AS THE ONLY ACTIVE COLOMBIAN GUERRILLA GROUP.</p><p>HOWEVER, THAT SUBVERSIVE GROUP, LED BY SPANISH PRIEST MANUEL PEREZ, ANNOUNCED LAST WEEK THE POSSIBILITY OF OPENING CHANNELS FOR PEACE IF A DATE IS SET FOR A MEETING, IN THE NEAR FUTURE, TO ANALYZE THE COUNTRY'S CURRENT OIL POLICIES.</p><p>THE ELN HAS OFFERED TO STOP ITS ATTACKS IF THE OIL INDUSTRY IN THE COUNTRY IS NATIONALIZED.</p></body></html>