<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1276"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1276"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LHASA (TIBET)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1276</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1276 (BOEING)</p><p>LHASA (TIBET), 7 MAY 90 (LHASA TIBET TELEVISION NETWORK) -- [TEXT] ECUADORAN FOREIGN AFFAIRS MINISTER CORDOVEZ, MADAME CORDOVEZ, AND FOUR OTHER ECUADORAN OFFICIALS ARRIVED IN LLASA ON THE MORNING OF 5 MAY.</p><p>AT 1830 THE SAME DAY, PUQUANG, VICE CHAIRMAN OF THE TIBET AUTONOMOUS REGIONAL PEOPLE'S GOVERNMENT, MET WITH THE ECUADORAN VISITORS AT THE TIBETAN-STYLE MEETING ROOM AT THE HOLIDAY INN IN LHASA. IN A FRIENDLY ATMOSPHERE, VICE CHAIRMAN PUQUANG BRIEFED FOREIGN MINISTER CORDOVEZ ON TIBET'S AGRICULTURE, ANIMAL HUSBANDRY, INDUSTRY, ENERGY, AND COMMUNICATIONS; AND ESPECIALLY THE SUCCESSES TIBET HAS ACHIEVED IN VARIOUS FIELDS UNDER THE LEADERSHIP OF THE CENTRAL PEOPLE'S GOVERNMENT SINCE TIBET'S DEMOCRATIC REFORM.</p><p>ON BEHALF OF THE TIBETAN AUTONOMOUS REGIONAL PEOPLE'S GOVERNMENT, VICE CHAIRMAN PUQUANG PRESENTED GIFTS TO THE VISITORS. THEN, VICE CHAIRMAN PUQUANG HOSTED A DINNER IN HONOR OF THE ECUADORAN VISITORS.</p><p>MAKING HIS WELCOMING SPEECH, VICE CHAIRMAN PUQUANG SAID: YOUR EXCELLENCY MINISTER CORDOVEZ HAS VISITED CHINA MANY TIMES AND YOU HAVE CONTRIBUTED SIGNIFICANTLY TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF FRIENDLY RELATIONS BETWEEN CHINA AND ECUADOR AND THE PEOPLES OF THE TWO COUNTRIES. YOUR EXCELLENCY'S CURRENT VISIT TO TIBET WILL CERTAINLY ENABLE YOU TO UNDERSTAND CHINA BETTER.</p><p>VICE CHAIRMAN PUQUANG STRESSED: TIBET HAS ALWAYS BEEN CHINA'S SACRED TERRITORY SINCE THE MIDDLE OF THE 13TH CENTURY. IT IS A FACT ACKNOWLEDGED BY THE WHOLE WORLD THAT ALL PREVIOUS CENTRAL GOVERNMENTS EFFECTIVELY EXERCISED THEIR SOVEREIGNTY IN TIBET.</p><p>VICE CHAIRMAN PUQUANG ALSO SAID THAT, SINCE THE LIFTING THE MARTIAL LAW ORDER IN LHASA, TIBET'S SITUATION HAS BEEN STABLE, ITS PUBLIC ORDER HAS BEEN NORMAL, ITS ECONOMY HAS BEEN DEVELOPING STEADILY, AND THE PEOPLE HAS BEEN LIVING AND WORKING IN PEACE AND CONTENTMENT.</p><p>MAKING HIS EXTEMPORANTEOUSLY SPEECH AT THE DINNER, FOREIGN AFFAIRS MINISTER CORDOVEZ SAID: VISITING THE TIBETAN AUTONOMOUS REGION HAS BEEN MY DREAM FOR MANY YEARS. LIKE TIBET, ECUADOR IS A COUNTRY ON A PLATEAU. WHEN I SET FOOT IN BEAUTIFUL LHASA, I HAD THE FEELING THAT I HAD RETURNED TO MY HOMETOWN.</p><p>MINISTER CORDOVEZ WHOLEHEARTEDLY WISHED TIBET PROSPERITY IN ALL FIELDS AND THE TIBETAN PEOPLE HAPPINESS.</p></body></html>