<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0649"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0649"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0649</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0649 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 7 NOV 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] THREE MILITANTS OF THE SALVADORAN LEFTIST SOCIAL CHRISTIAN PEOPLE'S MOVEMENT (MPSC) HAVE BEEN KILLED BY ARMY SOLDIERS IN THE CITY OF SONSONATE, APPROXIMATELY 50 KM WEST OF SAN SALVADOR, ACCORDING TO MEMBERS OF THAT POLITICAL ORGANIZATION.</p><p>AMONG THE VICTIMS ARE CECILIO RIVERA, WHO WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR MPSC ORGANIZATIONAL ACTIVITIES IN EASTERN SONSONATE DEPARTMENT. RIVERA WAS SHOT TO DEATH ALONG WITH TWO OTHER PARTY MILITANTS WHOSE IDENTITIES WERE NOT REVEALED. JUAN JOSE MARTEL, A TOP MPSC LEADER, TOLD AFP THAT AFTER LEAVING THE ORGANIZATION'S OFFICE ON THE NIGHT OF 6 NOVEMBER, THREE MEMBERS WERE ARRESTED BY "A GROUP OF ARMED SOLDIERS IN CIVILIAN CLOTHES BELONGING TO SONSONATE'S MILITARY DETACHMENT NO. 6.</p><p>"WE HAVE LEARNED OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN CAPTURED BY THESE SAME INDIVIDUALS AND HAVE APPEARED IN THE GARRISON LATER ON. THEREFORE, WE HAVE NO DOUBT THAT ARMY SOLDIERS KILLED THEM," HE ADDED.</p><p>MARTEL EXPLAINED THAT THE THREE BODIES WERE FOUND ON TUESDAY NEAR THE CITY'S CEMETERY WHERE THEY WERE GOING TO BE BURIED BY LOCAL AUTHORITIES AS UNIDENTIFIED PERSONS. HE NOTED THAT, BY CHANCE, A NEIGHBOR IDENTIFIED RIVERA, AND THIS ALLOWED HIM TO SPREAD THE NEWS.</p><p>THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE TRIPLE CRIME LEFT A PIECE OF PAPER ON THE BODIES WHICH READ: "BECAUSE THEY BETRAYED THE FATHERLAND."</p><p>CONDEMNING THIS MURDER, MARTEL SAID THAT "THIS NEW ACTION SHOWS, ONCE MORE, THAT IN EL SALVADOR THERE IS NO DEMOCRACY AND NO RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS, AND THE DEATH SQUADS CONTINUE TO OPERATE."</p><p>ON 19 OCTOBER, SUSPECTED DEATH SQUAD MEMBERS STAGED A BOMB ATTACK ON THE HOME OF MPSC SECRETARY GENERAL RUBEN ZAMORA, WOUNDING TWO PEOPLE AND CAUSING CONSIDERABLE PROPERTY DAMAGE.</p></body></html>