<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0243"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0243"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0243</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0243 (ADS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 9 JUN 89 (RADIO CADENA SONORA) -- [INTERVIEW WITH DR EDUARDO COLINDRES, LEADER OF THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY, BY NELSON LOPEZ] [TEXT] [BEGIN RECORDING] [COLINDRES] THE PDC [CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY] CONDEMNS THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENCY MINISTER DR ANTONIO RODRIGUEZ PORTH. IT BELIEVES VIOLENCE WILL NOT SOLVE THE COUNTRY'S PROBLEMS, IS NOT THE WAY TO SETTLE IDEOLOGICAL DIFFERENCES, AND WILL NOT LEAD TO PEACE AND DEVELOPMENT.</p><p>WE HOPE THIS CONDEMNABLE ACT WILL NOT BE FOLLOWED BY AN ESCALATION OF VIOLENCE AND REVENGE THAT WOULD ONLY SERVE TO FURTHER POLARIZE SALVADORAN SOCIETY. THE PDC EXPRESSES ITS CONDOLENCES TO THE REPUBLIC'S GOVERNMENT, THAT IS, THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE, AND RODRIGUEZ' GRIEVING FAMILY. WE URGE THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, BASED ON MUTUAL RESPECT, TO FIND A POLITICAL AND PEACEFUL SOLUTION TO THE CRISIS THAT IS CURRENTLY AFFLICTING OUR SOCIETY. THIS IS THE PDC'S POSITION ON THE CONDEMNABLE ASSASSINATION OF DR ANTONIO RODRIGUEZ PORTH.</p><p>[LOPEZ] DR COLINDRES, DO YOU NOT BELIEVE THIS COULD LEAD TO AN ESCALATION OF VIOLENCE BY THE EXTREME RIGHT?</p><p>[COLINDRES] WE HOPE REASON WILL PREVAIL IN THE COUNTRY. WE BELIEVE THIS OR ANY OTHER INCIDENT SHOULD NOT LEAD TO AN ESCALATION OF VIOLENCE, BECAUSE THAT WOULD ONLY RESULT IN MORE BLOODLETTING AMONG THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. I BELIEVE WE MUST NOT FALL FOR THE TRAP OF VIOLENCE THAT WOULD ONLY DESTROY US.</p><p>[LOPEZ] IT IS PRESUMED THAT THIS ACTION INVOLVED LEFTIST URBAN COMMANDOS OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN]. DO YOU BELIEVE THAT POLITICAL GROUP IS RESPONSIBLE?</p><p>[COLINDRES] LET US WAIT AND SEE WHAT WILL HAPPEN, BECAUSE IT COULD HAVE BEEN THE FMLN OR ULTRARIGHTIST FACTIONS SEEKING FURTHER POLARIZATION AND BLOODLETTING. WE DO NOT WANT TO PASS JUDGMENT YET. REGARDLESS OF WHO DID IT, THIS IS AN ASSASSINATION, WHICH IS NOT THE PROPER WAY TO SOLVE PROBLEMS AMONG SALVADORANS.</p><p>[LOPEZ] IN THE PDC'S OPINION, WHAT SHOULD BE THE ROLE OF THE ARMED FORCES IN THE WAKE OF DR RODRIGUEZ PORTH'S ASSASSINATION?</p><p>[COLINDRES] I BELIEVE THE ARMED FORCES MUST CONTINUE THEIR POLICY OF PROFESSIONALISM AND RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS, BECAUSE THIS IMPLIES RESPECTING THE LAW AND STRENGTHENING THE INSTITUTION OF THE ARMED FORCES. THEY HAVE THE CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY TO GUARANTEE THE SAFETY AND CALM OF THE ENTIRE POPULATION.</p><p>[LOPEZ] WOULD YOU LIKE TO ADD ANYTHING?</p><p>[COLINDRES] ONLY THAT WE HOPE THIS KIND OF REGRETTABLE AND CONDEMNABLE INCIDENT WILL NOT BE REPEATED. WE ALSO HOPE THAT VIOLENCE AND DESTRUCTION AMONG SALVADORAN BROTHERS WILL END ONCE AND FOR ALL. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>