<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0053"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0053"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-01-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0053</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0053 (NOSC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 23 JAN 89 -- [TEXT] PATRIOTIC UNION [UP] PRESIDENT BERNARDO JARAMILLO OSSA TODAY REVEALED THAT THE GOVERNMENT WARNED HIM OF A PLOT TO MURDER HIM AT EL DORADO AIRPORT UPON HIS RETURN FROM CUBA.</p><p>AFTER RETURNING HOME FROM THE AIRPORT ON SATURDAY NIGHT, BERNARDO JARAMILLO RECEIVED ANOTHER DEATH THREAT OVER THE TELEPHONE. TODAY, FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL EVIDENCE TO SUBSTANTIATE THE THREAT, THE AUTHORITIES STEPPED UP SECURITY MEASURES FOR JARAMILLO. AN ARMORED VEHICLE, 2 STATION WAGONS, 2 MOTORCYCLES, AND 15 MEN, ARMED TO THE TEETH AND NOT MORE THAN 30 YEARS OLD, HAVE BECOME JARAMILLO'S GUARDIAN ANGELS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [GUTIERREZ] ARE YOU AFRAID?</p><p>[JARAMILLO] I HAVE ALWAYS SAID THAT ONLY BAD PEOPLE ARE AFRAID. HOWEVER, I WILL TELL YOU QUITE HONESTLY THAT I WOULD BE MORE AFRAID IF I HAD DECIDED TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY. I AM DETERMINED TO REMAIN IN COLOMBIA AND TO CONTINUE WORKING FOR DEMOCRACY AND PEACE.</p><p>[GUTIERREZ] DO YOU FEEL THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS GIVING YOU ENOUGH PROTECTION?</p><p>[JARAMILLO] ONE THING IS THE DIRECT PROTECTION EFFICIENTLY PROVIDED BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY, AND ANOTHER THING IS THE GOVERNMENT'S POLICY FOR ELIMINATING THESE PROBLEMS. I DO NOT BELIEVE THE GOVERNMENT'S POLICY FOR DISMANTLING THE PARAMILITARY GROUPS IS APPROPRIATE.</p><p>[GUTIERREZ] WHEN YOU LEAVE YOUR HOME, DO YOU FEEL IT IS YOUR LAST DAY?</p><p>[JARAMILLO] I HAVE ALWAYS BEEN AN OPTIMIST; I ALSO BELIEVE THAT YOU WILL DIE WHEN YOU LEAST EXPECT IT. WHEN I WALK OUT OF MY HOME, I TAKE ALL THE NECESSARY PRECAUTIONS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>JARAMILLO SAID HIS TWO SONS, WHO DO NOT LIVE IN BOGOTA, CALLED TO SAY THEY WANTED TO SEE HIM. JARAMILLO TOLD THEM TO STAY AWAY; HE FEARS THAT A SURPRISE ATTACK CAN HAPPEN AT ANY TIME AND THAT HIS FAMILY AND FRIENDS MAY BECOME THE VICTIMS OF THIS NEVER-ENDING WAR.</p></body></html>