<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0311"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0311"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0311</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0311 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 25 JUL 89 (LA PRENSA GRAFICA) -- [SPEECH] [SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI] [TEXT] DEAR PEASANT FRIENDS:</p><p>FROM THE VERY 1ST DAY OF OUR ADMINISTRATION, WE HAVE PLEDGED OUR FULL COMMITMENT TO NATIONAL PROGRAMS AND HAVE SAID THAT "AT NO TIME AND FOR NO REASON WILL WE FORGET THE MANY NEEDY PEOPLE IN THE COUNTRY -- THAT IS, THE NOBLE AND LONG-SUFFERING PEASANTS, WHO ARE THE MAIN VICTIMS OF TERRORIST VIOLENCE."</p><p>THIS CEREMONY REAFFIRMS OUR GOVERNMENT'S COMMITMENT TO CONTINUE AGRARIAN REFORM.</p><p>WE WANT YOU TO REALIZE THE SERIOUSNESS OF OUR WORDS THROUGH OUR DEEDS. THIS PRESENTATION OF 8,000 PERMANENT LAND TITLE DEEDS TO THE BENEFICIARIES OF DECREE 207 -- THROUGH THE NATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FOR AGRICULTURAL LANDS (FINATA) -- REFLECTS OUR OBJECTIVES.</p><p>WE HAVE CATEGORICALLY SAID THAT WE WILL NOT TURN BACK THE AGRARIAN REFORM PROCESS. QUITE TO THE CONTRARY, WE WANT TO FULLY SUPPORT IT IN ORDER TO GUARANTEE THAT PEASANTS IN AREAS AFFECTED BY THE AGRARIAN REFORM ARE FREE TO CHOOSE THE KIND OF PROPERTY OWNERSHIP THAT BEST SUITS THEIR NEEDS, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE GREAT FREEDOMS GUARANTEED IN THE CONSTITUTION AND LAWS OF THE REPUBLIC.</p><p>OUR GOVERNMENT IS DETERMINED TO WORK HARD TO ENSURE THAT OUR BROTHER PEASANTS ARE INDEED BENEFITED BY THE AGRARIAN REFORM AND THAT THEY WILL NOT BE USED AS A DEMAGOGICAL BANNER AT THE SERVICE OF POLITICAL IDEOLOGY, AS WAS THE CASE UNTIL RECENTLY. WE WANT PEASANTS' WELFARE TO BE THE OBJECTIVE OF OUR AGRARIAN REFORM; WE WANT AGRARIAN REFORM TO DEVELOP WITHIN A LEGAL, HONEST, AND PATRIOTIC FRAMEWORK.</p><p>WE ARE AGAINST THE DEMAGOGUERY OF STATIC PATERNALISM, BECAUSE WE WANT PEASANTS TO DETERMINE THEIR OWN FATE, TO TRULY PARTICIPATE IN THEIR PRODUCTION UNITS' DECISIONMAKING PROCESS, IN THE MARKETING OF THEIR PRODUCTS, AND IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUE.</p><p>IT IS NEITHER FAIR NOR CORRECT, AS HAS BEEN THE CASE IN THE PAST, TO BENEFIT OFFICE WORKERS, WHO HAVE NEVER SWEATED IN THE FIELDS UNDER THE AGRARIAN REFORM, WHEN YOU -- THE PEASANTS -- ARE NOW FACING DEBTS AND ARE WORSE OFF THAN BEFORE YOU OWNED LAND.</p><p>OUR GOVERNMENT AND YOU WILL GRADUALLY CHANGE THIS SITUATION TO ENSURE THAT YOU WILL ENTHUSIASTICALLY WORK YOUR LAND, KNOWING THAT THE FRUIT OF YOUR LABOR WILL DIRECTLY BENEFIT YOUR FAMILIES. WE ARE SURE THAT WITH EFFICIENT ORGANIZATION, PROMPT CREDIT, ADEQUATE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, AND THE HARDWORKING LEGACY OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WE WILL TURN THE AGRARIAN REFORM INTO AN OPPORTUNITY FOR ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT, WHICH WILL BENEFIT ALL SALVADORANS BY PROMOTING PRODUCTION AND PRODUCTIVITY.</p><p>DEAR PEASANTS:</p><p>WE WISH TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS OPPORTUNITY TO TELL YOU THAT OUR GOVERNMENT IS DETERMINED TO WORK WITH YOU. THROUGH THE RELEVANT ORGANIZATIONS, THE GOVERNMENT WILL IMPLEMENT PROGRAMS TO COMPLETELY UPGRADE THE SALVADORAN PEASANTS' CONDITIONS.</p><p>THROUGH FINATA, WE WILL CONTINUE TO FINANCE THE ACQUISITION OF MORE LAND FOR DISTRIBUTION AMONG THOUSANDS OF PEASANT FAMILIES.</p><p>DEAR FRIENDS:</p><p>OUR GOVERNMENT IS DETERMINED TO ACHIEVE PEACE, BECAUSE WE ARE AWARE THAT THE FMLN'S TERRORIST VIOLENCE DISTURBS THE CALM AND NORMAL PROCEDURE OF RURAL ACTIVITIES; WE REALIZE THAT WE MUST END THE VIOLENCE SO THAT WE CAN ALL GO BACK TO WORK AND BRING ABOUT A NATIONAL RECOVERY. PEASANTS HAVE SUFFERED THE MOST THROUGHOUT THE CONFLICT UNLEASHED BY THE TERRORIST MARXIST-LENINIST GROUPS, AND WE BELIEVE THAT THE TIME HAS COME TO SEEK THE PEACE THAT WE ALL WANT IN ORDER TO RESTORE SOCIAL HARMONY, MUTUAL RESPECT, AND FRATERNAL LOVE AMONG ALL SALVADORANS WITHOUT EXCEPTION.</p><p>ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC, WE HAVE BEEN PARTICULARLY PLEASED TO PRESENT THESE PERMANENT LAND TITLE DEEDS TO THE BENEFICIARIES OF DECREE 207. WE CONGRATULATE AND INVITE YOU TO CONTINUE WORKING TOGETHER TO HELP THE FATHERLAND RECOVER FROM THE CRISIS AND TO BUILD FOR OUR CHILDREN AND ALL SALVADORANS A FUTURE OF PEACE, JUSTICE, LIBERTY, AND PROGRESS.</p></body></html>