<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0200"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0200"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0200</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0200 (ADS)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 4 MAY 89 (VOZ DE HONDURAS NETWORK) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH SALVADORAN PRESIDENT-ELECT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS AT GOVERNMENT HOUSE IN TEGUCIGALPA] [TEXT] [REPORTER] [PASSAGE OMITTED] ...FOR PEACE.</p><p>[CRISTIANI] PRESIDENT DUARTE HAS NOT HAD THE LUCK OF STRIKING A RESPONSIVE CHORD IN THE SALVADORAN MARXIST GUERRILLAS. WE HOPE THAT WITH NEW EFFORTS AND WITH THE PARTICIPATION OF SALVADORAN POLITICAL FORCES WE [WORDS INDISTINCT] PEACE. WE ALSO BELIEVE IT IS NECESSARY FOR THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT TO BE SEEN IN ITS FULL DIMENSION: IT IS PART OF A REGIONAL PROBLEM, AND, CONSEQUENTLY, THE [CENTRAL AMERICAN] PRESIDENTS HAVE DISCUSSED THE SUBJECT OF THIS INTERNAL CONFLICT AT THEIR MEETINGS.</p><p>[REPORTER] I HAVE A QUESTION ON BILATERAL RELATIONS. WILL YOUR GOVERNMENT RESPECT THE RULING BY THE INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE [ICJ] AT THE HAGUE REGARDING THE DEMARCATION OF THE BORDER WITH HONDURAS?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] WE ARE GOING TO CONTINUE TO RESPECT THE AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES. WE BELIEVE THAT WE MUST BEGIN TO RESOLVE ALL THE DIFFERENCES THAT OUR TWO COUNTRIES MAY HAVE HAD AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. THIS IS ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE HAVE MENTIONED TO PRESIDENT AZCONA. CONTRARY TO WHAT SOME PEOPLE MAY HAVE SAID, WE BELIEVE THAT WE MUST SEEK A SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEMS BETWEEN OUR TWO COUNTRIES AS SOON AS POSSIBLE AND CONTINUE IMPROVING A RELATIONSHIP THAT HAD BEEN SUSPENDED.</p><p>WE ARE GOING TO RESPECT THE PEACE PROCESS THAT IS ALREADY UNDER WAY BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES, AS WELL AS THE AGREEMENT TO TAKE THE MATTER TO THE ICJ FOR RESOLUTION.</p><p>[REPORTER] INTERNATIONAL REPORTS STATE THAT VIOLENCE HAS INCREASED IN EL SALVADOR SINCE YOUR PARTY WON THE ELECTIONS. I WOULD LIKE TO ASK IF YOU TRIED TO CONTACT THE GUERRILLAS PRIOR TO THE ELECTIONS OR ARE YOU GOING TO WAIT FOR THE SITUATION TO DETERIORATE EVEN FURTHER? [WORDS INDISTINCT] TAKE POWER?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] THE MARXIST GUERRILLA MOVEMENT IN EL SALVADOR HAS PUBLICLY ADMITTED THAT IT IS INCREASING ITS TERRORIST ACTIONS IN OUR COUNTRY IN AN ATTEMPT TO DESTABILIZE THE NEW GOVERNMENT. WE HAVE NOT GENERATED ANY VIOLENCE; I BELIEVE THE VICTORY OF OUR PARTY IN THE RECENT ELECTIONS DID NOT REPRESENT MORE VIOLENCE. VICE PRESIDENT-ELECT MERINO HEADED THE DELEGATION THAT MET WITH THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS IN MEXICO, AND FROM THE VERY BEGINNING WE HAVE EXPRESSED OUR WILLINGNESS TO SEEK, VIA A DIALOGUE, A SOLUTION TO OUR CONFLICT.</p><p>NATURALLY, WE CANNOT YET ACT AS A GOVERNMENT, AND WE ARE GOING TO RESPECT THE CURRENT GOVERNMENT'S RELATIONSHIP WITH THE GUERRILLAS. ONCE OUR ADMINISTRATION IS IN PLACE, WE WILL CONTINUE TO MAKE THE GREATEST EFFORT TO SEEK A DIALOGUE AND A SOLUTION.</p><p>[REPORTER] ARE YOU PLANNING TO ASK THE UNITED STATES FOR AN INCREASE IN ECONOMIC AND MILITARY AID?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] NO. DURING OUR RECENT TRIP TO WASHINGTON, ALL WE SAID IS THAT WE TRUST THAT THE U. S. GOVERNMENT AND PEOPLE ARE IN FAVOR OF THE STRENGTHENING OF DEMOCRACY IN EL SALVADOR. ON THIS OCCASION WE BENEFITTED FROM THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS, BUT THIS SHOULD NOT GENERATE, A PRIORI, ANY PREJUDICE AGAINST THE NEW SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT THAT COULD RESULT IN A MODIFICATION OF U.S. AID TO OUR COUNTRY.</p><p>WE HAVE NOT ASKED FOR ANY INCREASE IN AID. WE BELIEVE THAT WE SHOULD DEVELOP OURSELVES AND HAVE EL SALVADOR BECOME SELF-SUPPORTING. WE HOPE THAT WITH THE HELP OF THE LORD WE WILL ACHIEVE THIS [WORDS INDISTINCT] NOT BECAUSE WE DO NOT WANT TO MAINTAIN OUR FRIENDSHIP, BUT BECAUSE WE BELIEVE THAT EL SALVADOR CAN BECOME SELF-SUPPORTING.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT] [CRISTIANI] FRANKLY, I WAS SURPRISED BY THIS STATEMENT BY DANIEL ORTEGA. I DO NOT KNOW WHAT HE HAS BASED HIS OPINION ON. I DO NOT KNOW IF THIS IS THE RESULT OF MEETINGS THAT HE MIGHT HAVE HAD WITH THE MEMBERS OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] WHO HAVE JUST RETURNED FROM NICARAGUA. HOWEVER, AS WE HAVE JUST REITERATED, OUR INTENTION IS TO CONTINUE WITH THE EFFORTS THAT HAVE BEEN UNDER WAY SINCE ESQUIPULAS II WAS SIGNED, AND TO SEEK DEMOCRACY AND PEACE IN CENTRAL AMERICA BY MEANS OF A JOINT EFFORT BY OUR COUNTRIES.</p><p>[REPORTER] IT HAS BEEN CONFIRMED THAT THE NEXT SUMMIT OF CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS WILL BE HELD IN OUR COUNTRY IN JUNE. YOU ARE SLATED TO ATTEND BECAUSE YOU WILL BE INAUGURATED ON 1 JUNE. WHAT POSITION WILL EL SALVADOR TAKE AT THE MEETING, AND TO WHAT EXTENT HAS YOUR GOVERNMENT COMPLIED WITH THE COSTA DEL SOL AGREEMENTS? [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>