<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0133"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0133"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0133</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0133 (BELLCORE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 17 MAR 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT'S GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] HAS DECIDED TO COMBINE THE PEOPLE'S REJECTION OF THE 19 MARCH ELECTIONS WITH AN INTENSIFICATION OF ACTIONS THROUGHOUT THE NATION. THIS INCLUDES THE NATIONWIDE TRANSPORTATION STOPPAGE, WHICH WE NOW DECLARE TO BE INDEFINITE.</p><p>THE REJECTION OF THE 19 MARCH ELECTIONS BY OUR PEOPLE AND THE IMPACT OF OUR ACTIONS HAVE LED THE REGIME TO LAUNCH A CAMPAIGN OF DISINFORMATION, AGGRESSION, AND THREATS AGAINST THE CIVILIAN POPULATION IN A BID TO CONFUSE THE POPULATION AND, IN ADDITION, TO SET THE STAGE FOR AN ELECTORAL FRAUD.</p><p>IN ORDER TO MAKE MATTERS CLEAR TO OUR PEOPLE AS WELL AS TO THE LOCAL AND INTERNATIONAL PRESS, WE REPORT THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>1. THE GAGGING OF THE NATIONAL PRESS IS PART OF THE PLAN TO COVER UP THE FRAUD THAT WILL BE COMMITTED ON 19 MARCH. IN ADDITION, THE CONTROL OVER THE MEDIA IS INTENDED TO ATTRIBUTE TERRORIST ACTIONS TO THE FMLN.</p><p>2. THE REGIME HAS TRIED TO BLAME US FOR A NUMBER OF ACTIONS, SUCH AS THE ATTACK ON A RED CROSS AMBULANCE, AMONG OTHERS, FOR THE SAME PURPOSE. THE FMLN HAS A DEFINITE POLICY OF NOT HARMING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. THE HURLING OF GRENADES AT BUS STOPS IS A COMMON PRACTICE OF ARMY PERSONNEL AND IT IS THEREFORE PREPOSTEROUS TO BLAME THE FMLN.</p><p>3. A NUMBER OF FALSE COMMUNIQUES WITH AN OBVIOUS TERRORIST TONE HAVE APPEARED. THEY CLUMSILY GLORIFY VIOLENCE AND THREATEN THE PRESS IN TERMS THAT ARE QUITE UNLIKE THOSE APPEARING IN DOCUMENTS IN WHICH WE OUTLINE OUR OFFICIAL POSITION. WE EMPHATICALLY STATE THAT THE FMLN HAS IN NO WAY OR AT ANY TIME THREATENED THE PRESS OR THE CITIZENS. WE RECALL THE FACT THAT OUR OFFICIAL COMMUNIQUES ARE SIGNED BY OUR GENERAL COMMAND AND BROADCAST THROUGH OUR STATIONS.</p><p>WE REITERATE THAT THE FUNDAMENTAL THING AT THIS TIME IS TO REINFORCE AND EXPAND UNITY IN THE SEARCH FOR PEACE THROUGH EVERY POSSIBLE MEANS. THE STRUGGLE WHICH WE ARE WAGING WITH WEAPONS IN HAND IS AIMED AT AN ARMY THAT HAS ONCE MORE DENIED TO OUR NATION THE POSSIBILITY OF FINDING A FORMULA FOR A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION AT AN IMPORTANT CROSSROADS IN THE NATION'S HISTORY.</p><p>WE MADE A PROPOSAL TO HOLD FREE ELECTIONS, IN PEACE AND FOR PEACE, BUT THE ARMY STUBBORNLY INSISTS ON HOLDING FRAUDULENT ELECTIONS, AT WAR AND FOR WAR. CONSEQUENTLY, THE ELECTIONS WILL BE HELD DURING WAR.</p></body></html>