<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1213"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1213"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1213</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1213 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 6 APR 90 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] FIVE SOLDIERS WERE KILLED AND FIVE WERE WOUNDED DURING A FIERCE GUERRILLA ATTACK THIS MORNING IN THE CITY OF SUCHITOTO, CUZCATLAN DEPARTMENT, IN THE CENTRAL PART OF THE COUNTRY, MILITARY SPOKESPERSONS HAVE REPORTED.</p><p>THE SOURCES INDICATED THAT THE REBEL ATTACK BY RIFLE FIRE BEGAN AT 0120 TODAY AND LASTED FOR FOUR HOURS. AFTER THIS, THE ARMY WAS IN CONTROL OF THE SITUATION. THE NUMBER OF REBEL CASUALTIES IS NOT KNOWN.</p><p>THE FIGHTING BEGAN WHEN FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) GUERRILLAS ATTACKED THE LAS GUARAS BRIDGE GUARD POST IN THE CITY OF SUCHITOTO, 44 KM FROM SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>THE MILITARY SOURCES SAID THAT EARLY THIS MORNING THE ARMY WAS IN CONTROL OF THE SITUATION. HOWEVER, ARTILLERY UNITS ARE CONDUCTING A COMBING OPERATION IN AN EFFORT TO CAPTURE THE REBELS.</p><p>GUERRILLAS ACTIVITIES HAVE INCREASED OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS AFTER THE FMLN SIGNED AN AGREEMENT WITH THE GOVERNMENT LAST WEDNESDAY IN GENEVA (SWITZERLAND) TO CONTINUE THE DIALOGUE TO RESOLVE THE 10-YEAR CONFLICT IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>FMLN GUERRILLAS ATTACKED ARMED FORCES POSITIONS IN THE NORTHERN AND SOUTHERN PARTS OF THE CAPITAL FOR MORE THAN A HALF HOUR YESTERDAY, RESULTING IN TWO REBELS BEING KILLED AND ONE WOUNDED, ACCORDING TO MILITARY REPORTS.</p><p>THE FMLN HAS ALSO INTENSIFIED ITS SABOTAGE OF ELECTRICITY PYLONS, ABOVE ALL IN THE CAPITAL. THIS WEEK THE FMLN REBELS BROUGHT DOWN AT LEAST 20 ELECTRICITY PYLONS, CAUSING POWER OUTAGES IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.</p></body></html>