<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0534"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0534"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0534</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0534 (UMASS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 29 SEP 89 (AFP) -- [EXCERPT] THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT WILL OFFER A "TOTAL AMNESTY" TO THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN). IN EXCHANGE, IT WILL ASK THE INSURGENTS TO LAY DOWN THEIR WEAPONS AND JOIN CIVILIAN LIFE, JUSTICE MINISTER OSCAR SANTAMARIA ANNOUNCED TODAY.</p><p>IN STATEMENTS TO A LOCAL TELEVISION STATION, SANTAMARIA SAID THE PROPOSAL WILL BE OFFICIALLY PRESENTED TO THE REBEL LEADERS DURING THE SECOND ROUND OF THE DIALOGUE, WHICH WILL BE HELD 16 - 17 OCTOBER IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA.</p><p>SANTAMARIA, WHO IS THE ALFREDO CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT DIALOGUE COMMISSION SPOKESMAN, MET FOR THE FIRST TIME WITH THE FMLN LEADERS ON 13, 14, AND 15 SEPTEMBER IN MEXICO CITY.</p><p>ON 21 SEPTEMBER, DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL HUMBERTO LARIOS, FOR THE FIRST TIME IN THE 9 YEARS OF WAR, SAID THAT REDUCING THE NUMBER OF ARMY TROOPS, AS DEMANDED BY THE REBELS, IS FEASIBLE. HE SAID THE GOVERNMENT IS DRAFTING A DOCUMENT ON THE CEASE-FIRE THAT IT WILL PRESENT AT THE COSTA RICA MEETING.</p><p>DURING THE MEXICO MEETING THE PARTIES IN CONFLICT AGREED TO HOLD MEETINGS TO TRY TO REACH AN AGREEMENT ON THE WAR, WHICH HAS RESULTED IN 70,000 DEATHS OVER A 9-YEAR PERIOD.</p><p>DESPITE THE DIALOGUE, THE GUERRILLAS THIS WEEK LAUNCHED ONE OF THE MOST VIOLENT MILITARY CAMPAIGNS YET, WHICH EVEN AFFECTED SAN SALVADOR. THIS GUERRILLA CAMPAIGN IS IN RESPONSE TO "INCREASING REPRESSION AND ASSASSINATIONS" OF LABOR LEADERS.</p><p>THE ONLY ISSUE TO BE DISCUSSED AT THE COSTA RICA MEETING WILL BE THE CEASE-FIRE. THE TWO PARTIES HAVE EXPRESSED CONFIDENCE THAT AN AGREEMENT WILL BE REACHED BEFORE THE END OF THIS YEAR.</p><p>IN ADDITION TO THE REDUCTION IN THE NUMBER OF ARMY TROOPS, THE REBELS PROPOSED IN MEXICO THAT THE JUDICIAL BRANCH BE REORGANIZED AND THAT A PROSECUTOR [FISCAL] BE APPOINTED AS A RESULT OF A CONSENSUS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE POLITICAL PARTIES. IN RESPONSE TO A QUESTION ABOUT THE INTENSIFICATION OF THE ARMED STRUGGLE BY THE REBELS, SANTAMARIA SAID: "WE ARE AT A STAGE WHERE THE TENSION LEVEL IS DECLINING. WE HAVE FOUND POINTS OF AGREEMENT, AND WE AND WILL HONOR THEM."</p></body></html>