<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0367"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0367"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CARACAS (VENEZUELA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0367</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0367 (BBN)</p><p>CARACAS (VENEZUELA), 23 AUG 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] STEPPING UP SURVEILLANCE ALONG THE BORDER WITH COLOMBIA AND PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ' WARNING THAT THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING MUST BE STRENGTHENED ARE VENEZUELA'S VISIBLE REACTIONS TO THE WAVE OF VIOLENCE IN THE NEIGHBORING COUNTRY, WHICH RESULTED IN THE DEATH OF LIBERAL PARTY LEADER LUIS CARLOS GALAN.</p><p>MEANWHILE, IT WAS LEARNED THAT EDUARDO MARTINEZ ROMERO, RECENTLY ARRESTED IN COLOMBIA AND ONE OF THE LEADERS OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ORGANIZATION'S FINANCES, WAS TRYING TO PURCHASE LAND IN VENEZUELA TO EXPAND THE ACTIVITIES OF THE ORGANIZATION.</p><p>ACCORDING TO PEREZ, THE ACTIVITIES OF THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS COULD BE MOVED TO VENEZUELAN TERRITORY. THE VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT STRESSED THE NEED TO ADOPT STRONG MEASURES AGAINST SUCH A POSSIBILITY. "THE VENEZUELAN PEOPLE MUST UNITE IN THIS BATTLE," THE HEAD OF STATE SAID. HE ALSO ANNOUNCED THAT VENEZUELA WILL SUPPORT COLOMBIA BY STEPPING UP SURVEILLANCE ALONG THE BORDER.</p><p>IN THIS SENSE, VENEZUELAN DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL FILMO LOPEZ UZCATEGUI ANNOUNCED THE CREATION OF "TASK FORCES" THAT WILL BE DEPLOYED ALONG VENEZUELA'S WESTERN BORDER. THESE TASK FORCES WILL CARRY OUT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES AND SUPPORT THE MILITARY UNITS STATIONED IN THE AREA.</p><p>THE MINISTER REJECTED THE POSSIBILITY OF PARAMILITARY PERSONNEL BEING RECRUITED TO FORM THE "TASK FORCES" AND ADDED THAT INCIDENTS LIKE THE ONE THAT OCCURRED IN EL AMPARO ON THE BORDER WITH COLOMBIA LAST YEAR WHEN A GROUP OF SOLDIERS MURDERED 17 FISHERMEN WILL NOT BE REPEATED.</p><p>"WE ARE TRYING TO KEEP DRUG TRAFFICKERS FROM ENTERING THE COUNTRY TO CONTINUE THEIR CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES, THE MINISTER SAID.</p><p>ACCORDING TO STATEMENTS MADE BY SOURCES STATIONED ALONG THE COLOMBIAN - VENEZUELAN BORDER, AND CARRIED IN TODAY'S EDITION OF EL NACIONAL, MEDELLIN CARTEL TREASURER MARTINEZ ROMERO WANTED TO BUY LAND IN ZULIA AND TACHIRA, TWO VENEZUELAN STATES, TO EXPAND THE ORGANIZATION'S CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES.</p><p>ACCORDING TO ZULIA STATE GOVERNOR ISMAEL ORDAZ, THE SECURITY CORPS HAVE BEEN ALERTED IN LIGHT OF THE POSSIBILITY THAT THE DRUG TRAFFICKING "CAPOS" MAY HAVE FLED INTO VENEZUELA AS A RESULT OF THE PERSECUTION UNLEASHED IN COLOMBIA FOLLOWING THE MURDER OF LUIS CARLOS GALAN ON 18 AUGUST.</p></body></html>