<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1101"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1101"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1101</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1101 (UNISYS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 FEB 90 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES DENIED TODAY THAT THEIR PLANES HAD BOMBED A REFUGEE CAMP AND CIVILIAN SETTLEMENTS IN THE DEPARTMENTS OF CHALATENANGO AND MORAZAN, LOCATED NORTH AND NORTHEAST OF SAN SALVADOR, AS RELIGIOUS SOURCES HAD REPORTED YESTERDAY.</p><p>A COMMUNIQUE RELEASED BY THE ARMED FORCES STATES THAT FIVE PERSONS, INCLUDING FOUR MINORS, WERE KILLED, NOT AS A RESULT OF THE BOMBINGS, "BUT AS A RESULT OF THE CLASHES" BETWEEN SOLDIERS AND GUERRILLAS AT THE "CORRAL DE LAS PIEDRAS" REFUGEE CAMP IN CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES ACCUSED THE GUERRILLAS OF FIRING ROCKETS "THAT HIT SEVERAL HOUSES," AND IT REPORTED THAT A SOLDIER AND SIX GUERRILLAS WERE KILLED IN THE CLASHES, WHICH LASTED BETWEEN 0600 AND 1400.</p><p>HOWEVER, EDUARDO ALAS, THE BISHOP OF CHALATENANGO, TOLD THE MEDIA TODAY THAT FIVE PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND AT LEAST 14 CIVILIANS WERE WOUNDED WHEN THE CAMP WAS ATTACKED FROM THE AIR.</p><p>"ACCORDING TO THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY," ALAS SAID, "A ROCKET OR A GRENADE-TYPE DEVICE FELL ON ONE OF THE HOUSES WITH MANY PEOPLE INSIDE, INCLUDING CHILDREN. I SAW THE MUTILATED BODIES OF THE CHILDREN AND HOLES IN THE ROOF. THERE WAS A LOT OF MACHINEGUN FIRE."</p><p>MOREOVER, THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) CONDEMNED THE "COWARDLY ATTACK" ON THE REFUGEE HOMES, WHICH, HE SAID, WERE "HIGLY VISIBLE AND IDENTIFIED AS CIVILIAN HOUSING."</p><p>"THIS INCIDENT SHOWS A TOTAL LACK OF COMMITMENT BY THE ARMED FORCES TO REACH A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION, AND IT REAFFIRMS THE NEED TO MAINTAIN THE ARMED STRUGGLE AND TO USE MILITARY POWER TO REACH A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION SO THAT HUMAN RIGHTS ARE RESPECTED," THE FMLN SAID IN A COMMUNIQUE RELEASED TODAY.</p><p>THE FMLN ALSO CONDEMNED AN ALLEGED BOMBING OF THE TOWN OF CACAOPERA, IN MORAZAN DEPARTMENT, WHICH THE ARMED FORCES HAVE DENIED.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE GUERRILLAS, A WOMAN WAS WOUNDED AND A SUGAR CANE HARVEST WAS DESTROYED BY THE BOMBS, BUT ACCORDING TO COL MAURICIO VARGAS, MILITARY CHIEF OF THE REGION, "THERE WAS NO BOMBING, BUT CLASHES WITH A GROUP OF GUERRILLAS WITH THE SUPPORT OF HELICOPTERS."</p><p>THE MILITARY CHIEF PROMISED, HOWEVER, TO CARRY OUT THE "PERTINENT INVESTIGATIONS TO LEARN WHAT HAPPENED IN THE REGION."</p></body></html>