<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0350"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0350"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0350</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0350 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 18 AUG 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [SPEECH] [COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS] [TEXT] FELLOW COUNTRYMEN: I AM ADDRESSING YOU TO EXPLAIN THE MEASURES UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF THE STATE OF SIEGE [MEDIDAS DE ESTADO DE SITIO] WHICH HAVE BEEN ADOPTED AT A TIME WHEN THE NATION HAS JUSTIFIED REASONS TO FEEL ANGRY AND MOVED BY THE SERIOUS ACTIONS OF VIOLENCE THAT HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN RECENT DAYS. UNFORTUNATELY, LUIS CARLOS GALAN, THE LIBERAL PARTY PRESIDENTIAL HOPEFUL, WAS THE VICTIM OF ANOTHER ATTACK TONIGHT. SENATOR GALAN HAS BEEN TAKEN TO A HOSPITAL. LET US PRAY TO GOD THAT HE WILL RECOVER FROM HIS WOUNDS.</p><p>THE CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS AND THE NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS HAVE UNLEASHED A WAVE OF ASSASSINATIONS AND DEATHS. THERE HAVE BEEN ATTACKS AGAINST REPRESENTATIVES AND LEADERS FROM ALL SECTORS OF THE COUNTRY AND FROM ALL INSTITUTIONS. HIGH-RANKING GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, SEVERAL JUDGES, POLITICAL LEADERS, SOLDIERS, CITIZENS, AND PUBLIC OFFICIALS HAVE BEEN THE VICTIMS OF THIS BARBARISM.</p><p>VIOLENCE AFFECTS ALL. IT IS NOT AN OFFENSIVE AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OR AGAINST JUSTICE; IT IS A WAR AGAINST THE COUNTRY. THEREFORE, THE ENTIRE COUNTRY MUST RESPOND. I CAN UNDERSTAND HOW THE MURDER OF MAGISTRATE CARLOS VALENCIA LED THE JUDGES OF THE REPUBLIC TO PROTEST AND TO REQUEST MORE PROTECTION, BUT FOR THE MAGISTRATES AND JUDGES TO RESIGN ONLY CONTRIBUTES TO WORSENING THE SITUATION WHICH WE MUST ALL SOLVE BY WORKING TOGETHER. THIS IS ALSO EQUIVALENT TO YIELDING TO THE TERRORISTS WHO ARE TRYING TO PARALYZE THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE.</p><p>TRUE HEROES SUCH AS CARLOS VALENCIA, WALDEMAR FRANKLIN QUINTERO, AND OTHER JUDGES, POLICEMEN, SOLDIERS, AND BODYGUARDS HAVE PREVENTED THIS BY FULFILLING THEIR DUTIES WITHOUT YIELDING TO INTIMIDATION OR BRIBERY. I INVITE ALL JUDGES OF THE REPUBLIC TO RESUME THEIR WORK. THE GOVERNMENT HAS ADOPTED MORE MEASURES TO PROTECT THEM, AND IT WILL CONTINUE TO RENDER ALL THE COOPERATION THEY REQUIRE AND WHICH IS AVAILABLE. ALL GOOD COLOMBIANS MUST JOIN THE EFFORTS. NO MORE LAMENTATIONS WITHOUT TRUE ACTION OF COOPERATION WITH THE AUTHORITIES.</p><p>IT IS NECESSARY THAT ALL FORCES OF THE STATE AND OF SOCIETY -- POLITICAL PARTIES, UNIONS, MEDIA, CIVIC ORGANIZATIONS -- ALL SERVE JUSTICE AND THE STRUGGLE AGAINST CRIME. WE MUST BE PREPARED TO ENDURE MORE SORROW AND SUFFERINGS. ONLY IF ALL COLOMBIA PERSEVERES IN A TRULY STRONG AND SOLID MANNER -- BUT NOT JUST WITH WORDS -- IN THE DIFFICULT BATTLE AGAINST CRIME, WILL WE BE ABLE TO BANISH VIOLENCE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>