<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1132"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1132"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="VALLELUPAR (COLOMBIA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1132</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1132 (UNISYS)</p><p>VALLELUPAR (COLOMBIA), 21 FEB 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] IN THE PAST FEW HOURS, THE SO-CALLED CAMILIST UNION ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION (UC-ELN) MURDERED A POLICE INSPECTOR AND TWO OF HIS BROTHERS, WHO WERE PEASANTS. THE INSPECTOR AND HIS BROTHERS WERE MURDERED BY THE UC-ELN WHO ACCUSED THEM OF BEING ARMY AND POLICE INFORMERS. THE TRIPLE CRIME OCCURRED ON THE EL LIMONCITO PATH, IN GUACHICA MUNICIPALITY, SOUTHERN CESAR DEPARTMENT. A POLICE SPOKESMAN SAID THAT THE REBELS HAD IDENTIFIED THEMSELVES AS UC-ELN MEMBERS. THESE THREE NEW VICTIMS OF THE REBEL OFFENSIVE WERE TAKEN BY FORCE FROM THEIR HOMES BEFORE THEY WERE KILLED. THE MURDERED INSPECTOR WAS IDENTIFIED AS GUSTAVO ROPERO NAVARRO, 22, FROM GUACHICA. HIS BROTHERS WERE IDENTIFIED AS MARIANO AND FELIX ROPERO NAVARRO, 26 AND 24, RESPECTIVELY. AFTER THE CRIME, THE REBELS FLED INTO THE EASTERN MOUNTAIN RANGE. THE ELN HAS STARTED A NEW WAVE OF VIOLENCE IN THE PAST HOURS. IT HAS MURDERED THREE PEASANTS IN GUACHICONO, SOUTHERN CAUCA DEPARTMENT, TWO IN ANTIOQUIA, AND THREE IN CORDOBA. THESE PEOPLE WERE KILLED AFTER BEING ACCUSED BY THE ELN OF BEING INFORMANTS.</p></body></html>