<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0473"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0473"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MEXICO CITY (MEXICO)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0473</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0473 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>MEXICO CITY (MEXICO), 13 SEP 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] WITH MODERATE OPTIMISM, THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND THE GUERRILLAS OPENED A DIALOGUE IN MEXICO CITY TODAY TO ESTABLISH PEACE IN EL SALVADOR, WITH A SPECTACULAR PRIOR ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE INSURGENTS THAT THEY ARE PREPARED TO DECLARE A DEFINITIVE CEASE-FIRE AND BECOME A POLITICAL PARTY.</p><p>THIS PROPOSAL -- WHICH ENTAILS A DECISION TO LAY DOWN ARMS IF CERTAIN PRIOR CONDITIONS ARE MET -- DID NOT MEET WITH A MATCHING PROPOSAL FROM THE GOVERNMENT. THE DISCUSSIONS ARE TAKING PLACE IN A MODERN BUILDING BELONGING TO THE SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION IN A RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT IN THE SOUTHERN SECTION OF MEXICO CITY.</p><p>COMMANDER MIGUEL SAENZ OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) SAID DURING A RECESS THAT "THE GOVERNMENT'S COMMISSION DID NOT BRING ANY SUBSTANTIVE PROPOSAL."</p><p>ALL THE MEN WERE WEARING COATS AND TIE, WHEREAS THE FEMALE FMLN COMMANDERS WERE IN VERY FORMAL ATTIRE.</p><p>THE MEETING IS TAKING PLACE IN A 10-SQUARE-METER ROOM IN WHICH THE GOVERNMENT DELEGATES AND GUERRILLAS SIT FACE-TO-FACE, WITH THE MODERATORS AT THE HEAD OF THE TABLE. THE ROOM HAS AN ANNEX TO WHICH THE NEGOTIATORS WITHDRAW DURING RECESSES TO ANALYZE THE OTHER SIDE'S POSITIONS.</p><p>MSGR ROMEO TOBAR ASTORGA, WHO IS THE MODERATOR OF THE MEETING AND PRESIDENT OF THE SALVADORAN EPISCOPAL CONFERENCE, HAD ASSERTED BEFORE THE START OF THE MEETING THAT HE COULD SEE A WILLINGNESS ON BOTH SIDES "TO END A WAR THAT HAS CAUSED MANY VICTIMS."</p><p>"ALTHOUGH I AM NOT A MARXIST, BECAUSE THAT IDEOLOGY IS ATHEISTIC AND MATERIALISTIC, I AM CONVINCED THAT IT IS URGENT THAT THIS DIALOGUE LEAD TO THE PEACE WE LONG FOR," HE ALSO SAID.</p><p>SAENZ, WHO ALSO SOUNDED OPTIMISTIC BUT CAUTIOUS, SAID DURING A BRIEF TALK WITH NEWSMEN THAT PROCEDURES FOR THIS AND SUBSEQUENT MEETINGS ARE UNDER DISCUSSION, AND TIMETABLES, STAGES, AND SITES SHOULD RESULT FROM THEM.</p><p>SHORTLY BEFORE THE MEETING BEGAN, OSCAR SANTAMARIA, WHO IS THE JUSTICE MINISTER AND ONE OF THE OFFICIAL DELEGATES, ASSERTED THAT "THERE IS UTMOST WILLINGNESS TO ACHIEVE PEACE" ON THE PART OF THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>IN ADDITION TO SANTAMARIA, THE OTHER MEMBERS OF THE GOVERNMENT DELEGATION ARE PRESIDENCY MINISTER JUAN MARTINEZ, POET DAVID ESCOBAR, AND ADVISERS HECTOR CONTRERAS AND ABELARDO TORRES. TOBAR ASTORGA IS ACCOMPANIED BY MSGR GREGORIO ROSA CHAVEZ, AUXILIARY BISHOP OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>BESIDES SAENZ, THE FMLN IS REPRESENTED BY COMMANDERS SHAFIK HANDAL, SALVADOR SAMAYOA, ANA GUADALUPE MARTINEZ, MERCEDES LETONA, MARIO ROJAS, AND DANIEL LOPEZ.</p><p>AT 1045 (1645 GMT), 1 HOUR BEFORE THE MEETING BEGAN, THE FMLN RELEASED ITS PROPOSAL TO THE PRESS, WHICH INCLUDES A CEASE-FIRE ON 15 NOVEMBER, A DEFINITIVE END TO THE HOSTILITIES ON 31 JANUARY, AND THE INCORPORATION OF ITS LEADERS AND ACTIVISTS INTO THE COUNTRY'S POLITICAL LIFE THROUGH A POLITICAL PARTY.</p><p>THE CONDITIONS DEMANDED BY THE FMLN INCLUDE REFORMS TO THE JUDICIAL SYSTEMS, AN END TO ALL MANNER OF REPRESSION, THE PURGING AND PROFESSIONALIZATION OF THE ARMED FORCES, THE FULL EXERCISE OF FREEDOMS (VERIFIED BY THE UN AND THE OAS), THE REORGANIZATION OF THE ELECTORAL SYSTEM, THE HOLDING OF THE 1991 LEGISLATIVE AND MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS AHEAD OF SCHEDULE, AND AN INVESTIGATION INTO THE ASSASSINATION OF MSGR OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO.</p><p>THE FIRST STEP THE FMLN WOULD TAKE ONCE THE CEASE-FIRE IS IN PLACE WOULD BE TO LEGALIZE THE STATUS OF ITS MILITANTS AND ITS MEDIA. "THIS STEP INVOLVES RISKS, BUT WE ARE WILLING TO TAKE THEM," THE GUERRILLA DELEGATES SAID.</p><p>THE TALKS WERE CONTINUING EARLY IN THE AFTERNOON WITHOUT ACCESS TO THE PRESS AND AMID A DISCREET SECURITY MEASURE ESTABLISHED BY THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT -- JUST A COUPLE OF MEN WITH "WALKIE-TALKIES" AND DISGUISED WEAPONS.</p><p>SAVE FOR AN UNFORESEEN OBSTACLE, THE MEETING IS SCHEDULED TO CONTINUE TOMORROW, THURSDAY.</p></body></html>