<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0745"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0745"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0745</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0745 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>MANAGUA, 14 NOV 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] A LEADER OF THE INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT IN EL SALVADOR TODAY SAID IN MANAGUA THAT THE MILITARY CAMPAIGN THAT THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS HAVE LAUNCHED AGAINST ARMY TROOPS ON VARIOUS FRONTS AIMS TO CREATE THE APPROPRIATE CONDITIONS FOR A "GENUINE DIALOGUE" WITH GUARANTEES FOR THE PEOPLE.</p><p>COMMANDER MARIO LOPEZ, MEMBER OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT'S (FMLN) POLITICAL COMMISSION, SAID THAT THE REBELS HAVE ORDERS TO "ADVANCE" AND CONTROL THE "FREED ZONES" AS PART OF ITS STRUGGLE AGAINST THE ARMY OF ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S "FASCIST GOVERNMENT, WHICH IS MAINTAINING A SOCIALLY UNJUST REGIME.</p><p>LOPEZ, WHO IS ALSO KNOWN AS "COMMANDER VENANCIO SALVATIERRA," SAID THAT THE SALVADORAN AIR FORCE HAS USED MORE THAN 15 AIRCRAFTS TO BOMB CIVILIANS IN SOYAPANGO, ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF SAN SALVADOR, AND NEIGHBORHOODS IN SAN MIGUEL, CAUSING SERIOUS STRUCTURAL DAMAGE AND KILLING CIVILIANS.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLA LEADER POINTED OUT THAT THE FMLN MILITARY CAMPAIGN, WHICH BEGAN WITH NATIONWIDE ATTACKS ON 11 NOVEMBER, HAS ENJOYED "POPULAR SUPPORT" WHICH MAKES IT "AN INSURRECTION WHOSE SCOPE IS DIFFICULT TO GAUGE."</p><p>HE ADDED THAT THIS REACTION MEANS THAT THE FMLN "CANNOT ALLOW BLOWS AGAINST THE PEOPLE TO TAKE PLACE WITH IMPUNITY."</p><p>"WE ARE SEEKING A CHANGE IN THE CORRELATION OF FORCES THAT WOULD BRING ABOUT APPROPRIATE CONDITIONS FOR A GENUINE DIALOGUE," MARIO LOPEZ POINTED OUT. HE ADDED THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF ALFREDO CRISTIANI MUST "QUIT HOPING FOR A MILITARY VICTORY OVER THE FMLN."</p><p>AS FOR EFFORTS TO BRING ABOUT A DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE GUERRILLAS AND THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT, LOPEZ SAID THAT EFFORTS ARE BEING MADE BY VARIOUS GOVERNMENTS TO PREVENT THE GENOCIDAL ACTIONS OF THE SALVADORAN ARMY. HE SAID THAT THE FMLN IS MAKING SUCH EFFORTS AT THE UNITED NATIONS AND OAS WHERE NICARAGUA HAS PROPOSED A RESUMPTION OF NEGOTIATIONS.</p><p>HE ADDED THAT FOR THE TIME BEING, THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS ARE ORGANIZING "POPULAR GOVERNMENTS" IN THE "FREED ZONES," HOWEVER, HE SAID NOTHING ABOUT THE ETABLISHMENT OF A PROVISIONAL FMLN GOVERNMENT.</p><p>LOPEZ SAID THAT AN INTERVENTION BY THE GUATEMALAN ARMY IN THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT, BY SUPPORTING THE CRISTIANI ARMY, "WOULD BE DANGEROUS FOR CENTRAL AMERICA BECAUSE THE CONFLICT COULD BE SPREADED." HE RECALLED THAT GUATEMALA IS FACING A GUERRILLA STRUGGLE WHICH IS OLDER THAN THE ONE IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>LOPEZ DENIED THAT THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS EXIST BECAUSE OF THE USSR, CUBA, AND NICARAGUA AND ADDED THAT THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLA STRUGGLE IS OLDER THAN THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT ITSELF (1979). HE ADDED THAT THE FMLN HAS DEVELOPED ITS OWN STRATEGIES AND EVEN ITS OWN WEAPONS, HOWEVER, HE ADMITTED THAT IT RECEIVES WEAPONS FROM ABROAD. HE PROVIDED NO FUTHER DETAILS ON THE FMLN'S "OWN" WEAPONS.</p></body></html>