<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0958"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0958"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0958</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0958 (SRI)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (RADIO CADENA SONORA) -- [REPORT] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [CRISTIANI] "JUST A FEW WORDS TO EXPLAIN THE CURRENT MILITARY SITUATION. WE BELIEVE THAT STILL, REGRETTABLY, FOLLOWING THE FMLN'S [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] IRRATIONALITY, WE CANNOT RULE OUT A CONTINUATION OF THEIR VIOLENT ACTIONS. WE KNOW THAT AROUND THE CAPITAL THERE ARE STILL GROUPS OF TERRORISTS, ESPECIALLY IN THE SOUTHERN AREA, IN THE NORTHWEST -- THE SAN SALVADOR VOLCANO-- AND IN THE NORTHEAST, TO THE NORTH OF SOYAPANGO MUNCIPALITY. THE MILITARY, HOWEVER, HAVE TAKEN THE OFFENSIVE IN THESE THREE AREAS WHERE THE FMLN GROUPS HAVE BEEN CHASED. FIGHTING HAS TAKEN PLACE OVER THE LAST FEW DAYS, WITH OVER 100 CASUALTIES INFLICTED UPON THE FMLN IN 3 DAYS.</p><p>"WE BELIEVE, HOWEVER, THEY HAVE LEFT WITHIN THE CAPITAL GREAT NUMBERS OF WEAPONS, SOME OF WHICH HAVE BEEN DISCOVERED. SOME GROUPS ARE IN HIDING, USING CIVILIANS, AND ARE CARRYING OUT TERRORIST ACTIVITIES. THEY HAVE BURNED BUSES, GASOLINE STATIONS AND MURDERED DR FRANCISCO JOSE GUERRERO; AND ON 7 DECEMBER, THEY FIRED THREE OR FOUR MORTAR ROUNDS AT RANDOM, FALLING ON PRIVATE HOMES. ONE OF THEM FELL ON THE HOUSE OF THE SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE PRESIDENT. WE BELIEVE THESE ACTIONS ARE JUST MERE TERRORISM, INDISCRIMINATELY FIRING MORTARS ON THE CAPITAL'S CIVILIANS.</p><p>"WE BELIEVE THEY HAVE NO FURTHER CAPACITY EXCEPT TO CARRY OUT THESE TERRORIST ACTS TO CREATE CONFUSION AND ANARCHY AMONG THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. THANK GOD, OUR POPULATION IS VERY BRAVE AND HEROIC. WE HAVE BEEN NOTICING WITH PRIDE HOW THE POPULATION HAS BEEN WORKING NORMALLY IN ALL OF SAN SALVADOR, GOING TO THEIR JOBS, WITH BUSINESSES OPENING AND TRYING TO OPERATE NORMALLY. THERE ARE STILL SOME THREATS IN THE CITY OF SAN MIGUEL, WHERE A GROUP OF TERRORISTS ARE CONCENTRATED TO THE NORTHEAST OF THE CITY. HERE, TOO, THE ARMED FORCES HAVE BEGUN AN OFFENSIVE AND QUICKLY END ANY IMMINENT DANGER."</p><p>PRESIDENT CRISTIANI SAID THAT THE GOVERNMENT'S POSITION AT THE 10 DECEMBER PRESIDENTIAL SUMMIT WILL BE OPEN TO THE POSSIBILITY OF RESTARTING A DIALOGUE WITH THE INSURGENTS ON 20 DECEMBER, IN CARACAS, VENEZUELA, AS LONG AS THE FMLN NO LONGER CARRIES OUT ARMED ACTIONS IN URBAN AREAS, BUT THEY DO NOT HAVE TO LAY DOWN THEIR WEAPONS AND SHOULD CONTINUE ACTIONS ONLY AGAINST MILITARY TARGETS.</p><p>[CRISTIANI] "AS YOU ALL HAVE BEEN ABLE TO SEE FOR YOURSELVES, THE GOVERNMENT HAS NEVER BEEN AGAINST CONTINUING THE DIALOGUE PROCESS TO FIND A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT. IT HAS BEEN THE FMLN THAT UNILATERALLY BROKE THIS DIALOGUE PROCESS BY NOT TURNING UP AT CARACAS, VENEZULA, AS HAD BEEN AGREED IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA. WE, HOWEVER, ARE GOING TO MAKE A DEFINITE PROPOSAL IN COSTA RICA, WHICH IN GENERAL TERMS IS AS FOLLOWS:</p><p>"THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT IS WILLING TO RESTART THE DIALOGUE PROCESS. MOST CONVENIENT WOULD BE FOR THIS TO TAKE PLACE IN CARACAS, WITH THE FOLLOWING CONDITION: BEGINING 15 DECEMBER, 3 DAYS AFTER THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTIAL MEETING [3-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION], THE FMLN SHOULD PUBLICLY DECLARE AND GIVE PROOF OF COMPLIANCE THAT IT WILL END ALL TYPES OF TERRORIST ACTS, ESPECIALLY THOSE THAT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY AFFECT CIVILIANS. WE WANT TO CLARIFY THAT WE ARE NOT ASKING THEM TO LAY DOWN THEIR ARMS, AS WAS ATTEMPTED MANY TIMES. IF THE FMLN CONTINUES ITS IRRATIONAL BEHAVIOR, THE ARMED FORCES WILL CONTINUE FIGHTING THEM. TERRORIST ACTIONS AGAINST CIVILIANS MUST END. THE PEOPLE DO NOT DESERVE TO CONTINUE BEING THE MOST AFFECTED BY THE IRRATIONALITY OF ALL THIS FIGHTING. WE THINK THE LEAST THE FMLN CAN DO IS TO STOP ALL ACTIONS THAT AFFECT, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. MILITARY TARGETS ARE SOMETHING ELSE; BUT IF WE ANALYZE THINGS, UP TO THIS MOMENT NOT A SINGLE MILITARY OBJECTIVE WAS THE TARGET SINCE 11 NOVEMBER. THEY HAVE NOT EVEN BEEN ABLE TO TAKE OVER A CIVIL DEFENSE POST. ALL ACTIONS HAVE BEEN AGAINST CIVILIANS, TRYING TO INTIMIDATE THEM, TRYING TO CREATE TERROR AMONG THE POPULATION. THE CESSATION OF TERRORIST ACTS SHOULD BE THE FMLN'S PROOF OF SINCERITY AND WILL TO REALLY TRY AND SEEK A SOLUTION BY WAY OF DIALOGUE. IF THE FMLN TODAY ACCEPTS ENDING ALL ACTIONS AGAINST THE CIVILIAN POPULATION, THEN WE ARE WILLING ON 20 DECEMBER TO GO TO CARACAS AND TO CONTINUE THE DIALOGUE PROCESS AND TALKS ON ALL THE TOPICS THE FMLN WISHES TO TALK ABOUT. THJIS WILL BE IN ORDER TO ENSURE THAT BY 15 FEBRUARY WE HAVE A SOLUTION TO THE CONFLICT." [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>