<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1114"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1114"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1114</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1114 (UNISYS)</p><p>NO CITY, NO DATE -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH PERUVIAN PRESIDENT GARCIA BY AMAT AND AN UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [GARCIA] I HAVE SPENT THE LAST SIX YEARS OF MY POLITICAL LIFE SAYING THINGS CLEARLY. MANY PEOPLE DESCRIBE THAT ATTITUDE AS VEHEMENCE OR RADICALISM. I DISAGREE WITH THAT VIEW.</p><p>WHEN THE UNITED STATES INVADED PANAMA -- AND I WAS AWARE OF WHAT NORIEGA WAS -- I SAID THAT DESPITE THAT FACT, THE INVASION HAD BEEN A CRIME. WE DEMANDED THE IMMEDIATE WITHDRAWAL OF THE U.S. TROOPS. I SAID THAT IF THE IMMEDIATE WITHDRAWAL DID NOT TAKE PLACE, I WOULD NOT ATTEND THE CARTAGENA SUMMIT, BECAUSE I COULD NOT SIT AT THE SAME TABLE WITH THE U.S. PRESIDENT WHILE A LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRY REMAINED INVADED. AND IT HAPPENED. IT HAPPENED. THE TROOPS HAD TO WITHDRAW. AND WE HAVE HELD A CORDIAL MEETING FOR THAT REASON.</p><p>[AMAT] MR PRESIDENT, YOU HAVE CONVINCED US [WORDS INDISTINCT] THINGS THE WAY YOU SEE AND FEEL ABOUT THEM. WILL YOU TELL US FRANKLY -- FRANKLY -- WHAT IS YOUR OPINION OF THE SUMMIT? WHAT HAPPENED AT THE SUMMIT? WHAT IMPORTANT CONCLUSIONS WERE REACHED AT THE SUMMIT?</p><p>[GARCIA] FRANKLY, AND IN A NUTSHELL, IT WAS POSITIVE. IT CREATED A MULTILATERAL ATMOSPHERE, AND WE TALKED VERY CANDIDLY. AS FOR ME PERSONALLY, I HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO MEET A CONTINENTAL POLITICIAN LIKE BUSH, AND I FOUND HIM TO BE A PRAGMATIC PERSON. I PROBABLY DISAGREE WITH HIM ON MORE THAN HALF OF THE THINGS HE THINKS, BUT I DO NOT THINK THAT HUMAN BEINGS ARE OBLIGED TO BE IDENTICAL. WHAT IS IMPORTANT IS TO LOOK AT EACH PERSON FOR HIS GOOD POINTS -- HOWEVER FEW OR MANY THEY MAY BE -- TO ESTABLISH A RAPPORT ON THAT BASIS.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT IS BEING PLANNED? WHAT IS NEXT? WHAT IS GOING TO BE DONE TO CONTINUE... [CHANGES THOUGHT] IN ORDER FOR THE PRESIDENTS TO KEEP IN CONSTANT TOUCH TO FULFILL WHAT THEY SIGNED?</p><p>[GARCIA] WELL, THERE WILL BE CONSTANT COMMUNICATION. IT IS EASY TO TALK WITH THE U.S. PRESIDENT, WHO IS NOT GOD. THERE ARE TELEPHONES TO DO THAT. MR. BELL INVENTED A LITTLE GADGET OVER A CENTURY AGO CALLED THE TELEPHONE AND WE, THE PRESIDENTS, COMMUNICATE WITH EACH OTHER -- WITH BARCO, PAZ ZAMORA, AND PRESIDENT BUSH, TO ASK: WILL WE OR WILL WE NOT DO WHAT WE PLEDGED TO DO? IF WE DO NOT, AT LEAST IT WILL NOT BE MY FAULT OR THAT OF THE LATIN AMERICANS.</p><p>[AMAT] WE ARE IN THE MIDST OF AN ELECTORAL PROCESS IN COLOMBIA, AND THE PERUVIAN PRESIDENT IS ALSO FACING AN ELECTORAL PROCESS...</p><p>[GARCIA, INTERRUPTING] AND YOU KNOW THE CANDIDATE, FORTUNATELY. [CHUCKLES]</p><p>[AMAT] MR. PRESIDENT, IT LOOKS LIKE THE OPPOSITION IS GOING TO DEFEAT YOU IN YOUR COUNTRY?</p><p>[GARCIA] IT IS A POSSIBILITY, IT IS TRUE.</p><p>[AMAT] WHY?</p><p>[GARCIA] LOOK, ANYONE WHO LISTENS TO YOUR QUESTION WOULD THINK THAT FIVE YEARS AGO, WHEN I ASSUMED POWER, PERU WAS A COUNTRY FULL OF GOLD, VERY RICH, THE WAY IT WAS BEFORE THE SPANISH CONQUEST -- ORDERLY, AND WITHOUT PROBLEMS. FIVE YEARS AGO IT HAD A DEVELOPED TERRORIST PROBLEM. IT HAD A FOREIGN DEBT OF 14.5 BILLION AND WAS EXTREMELY POOR. FIVE YEARS HAVE ELAPSED. I EXPLAINED TO YOU ONCE THAT I TRIED TO MAKE IT GROW AT GREAT SPEED AND MANAGED TO DO SO. THEN WE FACED A DECLINE, AND WE ARE NOW STABILIZING THE SITUATION.</p><p>HOWEVER, MANY PEOPLE FEEL THAT A PERSON CAN SOLVE MANY THINGS BECAUSE OF THE IMPETUOSITY IN HIS PERSONALITY. SOMETIMES THIS IS THE PROBLEM OF BEING HONEST OR HAVING AN IMPETUOUS PERSONALITY OR HARBORING MANY HOPES -- OR SELLING THEM.</p><p>THE TRUTH IS THAT -- LIKE FIVE YEARS AGO -- WE HAVE A POOR COUNTRY, A COUNTRY THAT OWES MONEY, A COUNTRY THAT HAS JUST AS MUCH OR MORE SUBVERSIVE TERRORISM, AND THIS MAKES PEOPLE UNCOMFORTABLE. I CANNOT UNDERSTAND IT. HOWEVER, THAT IS WHAT WE POLITICIANS ARE FOR -- TO BURN OUT IN OUR WORK FOR DEMOCRACY TO SURVIVE. I WILL BE REPLACED BY SOMEONE ELSE WHO THINKS LIKE ME OR TOTALLY DIFFERENT FROM ME. HE WILL REPLACE ME AND DEMOCRACY WILL STAY, A CIVILIZED SYSTEM. THIS IS THE MOST IMPORTANT THING. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>