<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0391"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0391"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0391</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0391 (BBN)</p><p>BOGOTA, 28 AUG 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] COMBINED ARMY AND POLICE FORCES HAVE RAIDED AN OFFICE IN DOWNTOWN BOGOTA THAT APPARENTLY SERVED AS THE "FINANCIAL HEADQUARTERS" OF THE DRUG TRAFFICKING GROUP HEADED BY GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA, THE SECOND MOST IMPORTANT MEDELLIN CARTEL BOSS. THIS ANNOUNCEMENT WAS MADE TODAY BY THE COLOMBIAN DEFENSE MINISTRY.</p><p>IT HAS BEEN REPORTED THAT THE AUTHORITIES DISCOVERED THE NUMBERS OF THE BANK ACCOUNTS THE DRUG TRAFFICKER HAS IN COLOMBIA AND ABROAD. THE AUTHORITIES CONFISCATED 30 SOPHISTICATED COMPUTERS, TELEFAX, AND OTHER ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT. THIS HAS BEEN ANOTHER SEVERE SETBACK FOR RODRIGUEZ GACHA, ONE OF THE MAFIA BOSSES MOST WANTED BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT.</p><p>RODRIGUEZ GACHA, ALIAS THE MEXICAN, IS CONSIDERED TO BE THE RIGHT-HAND MAN OF PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA, THE MEDELLIN CARTEL'S TOP BOSS. GACHA'S GROUP HAS SUFFERED MANY LOSSES DUE TO THE OFFENSIVE LAUNCHED BY THE GOVERNMENT AGAINST COCAINE TRAFFICKING ORGANIZATIONS OPERATING IN COLOMBIA. OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS, ELITE ARMY TROOPS HAVE SEIZED SEVERAL LARGE FARMS OWNED BY RODRIGUEZ GACHA IN THE TOWN OF PACHO, AS WELL AS LUXURIOUS RESIDENCES IN BOGOTA. A SON OF RODRIGUEZ GACHA, FREDDY RODRIGUEZ CELADES, AND THE GROUP'S "CHIEF OF FINANCES," FERNANDO GALEANO BERRIO--WHO IS WANTED BY THE U.S. AUTHORITIES--ARE BEING HELD BY COLOMBIAN AUTHORITIES.</p><p>HOWEVER, DESPITE THE "WAR" THE GOVERNMENT HAS DECLARED ON THE DRUG TRAFFICKING GANGS, A SUPERIOR COURT HAS REVOKED A WARRANT FOR THE ARREST OF ESCOBAR GAVIRIA, RODRIGUEZ GACHA, AND OTHER PERSONS LINKED TO MASSACRES CARRIED OUT BY RIGHTIST MILITARY GROUPS BEING TRAINED BY ISRAELI, BRITISH, U.S., AND WEST GERMAN MERCENARIES, ACCORDING TO THE INVESTIGATIONS.</p><p>THE RULING WAS MADE KNOWN YESTERDAY. TODAY THE COUNTRY IS STILL AMAZED, CONSIDERING THAT THERE IS ENOUGH EVIDENCE TO PROVE THAT THE MAFIA LEADERS MASTERMINDED THE MASSACRES, AS REPORTED BY JUSTICE MARIA ELENA DIAZ, WHO WAS SHOT TO DEATH LAST MONTH, EVIDENTLY AS A REPRISAL FOR HAVING STATED THIS OPINION.</p><p>THE ARREST WARRANT ALSO INCLUDED LUIS RUBIO ROJAS, A FORMER MAYOR OF THE TOWN OF PUERTO BOYACA, AN OPERATIONS CENTER OF RIGHTIST PARAMILITARY ELEMENTS, AND SEVERAL ARMY DETACHMENT ELEMENTS WHO REPORTEDLY PROMOTE TERRORIST SQUADRONS.</p><p>IT HAS BEEN FULLY ESTABLISHED THAT ARMED ULTRA-RIGHTIST GROUPS HAVE BEEN TRAINED BY FOREIGN MERCENARIES, INCLUDING JAIR KLEIN, A FORMER ISRAELI ARMY COLONEL WHO COMMANDED HIS COUNTRY'S ANTITERRORIST CORPS SEVERAL YEARS AGO.</p></body></html>