<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0920"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0920"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0920</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0920 (GTE)</p><p>BOGOTA, 1 DEC 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO] [TEXT] FELLOW PATRIOTS, I AM ADDRESSING THE NATION TODAY TO EXPLAIN THE GOVERNMENT'S POSITION CONCERNING THE ISSUE OF EXTRADITION, WHICH WAS THE SUBJECT OF A VERY INTENSE DEBATE LAST NIGHT AT THE CHAMBER OF REPRESENTATIVES' FIRST COMMISSION.</p><p>A PROPOSAL WAS PUT FORWARD TO THE EFFECT THAT IN THE EXTRAORDINARY REFERENDUM SCHEDULED FOR 21 JANUARY -- WHICH IS CONTEMPLATED IN THE CONSTITUTIONAL REFORM THAT IS CURRENTLY IN ITS FINAL STAGES -- AN ADDITIONAL QUESTION BE INCLUDED WITH REGARD TO WHETHER OR NOT YOU, THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE, WANT COLOMBIAN CRIMINALS TO BE EXTRADITED.</p><p>THIS QUESTION WOULD JOIN FOUR OTHER ISSUES THAT HAD ALREADY BEEN APPROVED FOR SUBMISSION TO POPULAR CONSULTATION ON 21 JANUARY. ON BEHALF OF THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT, THE GOVERNMENT MINISTER IMMEDIATELY EXPRESSED THE DISADVANTAGES OF APPROVING THAT PROPOSAL.</p><p>I HAVE CONSULTED WITH FORMER PRESIDENTS ALBERTO LLERAS, CARLOS LLERAS RESTREPO, ALFONSO LOPEZ, AND JULIO CESAR TURBAY ABOUT INCLUDING THE EXTRADITION ISSUE IN THE REFERENDUM, AND THEY FEEL THAT WITH THE CURRENT PUBLIC ORDER SITUATION, ESPECIALLY WHEN THE GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN DEALING SUCCESSFULLY WITH THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING, IT WOULD BE DISADVANTAGEOUS TO USE THE REFERENDUM TO DECIDE ON EXTRADITION.</p><p>THE COUNTRY MUST NOT DECEIVE ITSELF AS TO WHERE WE WOULD BE HEADED IF WE HELD A REFERENDUM ON THE ISSUE OF EXTRADITION, AND AS TO THE FATAL CONSEQUENCES OF SUCH AN ACTION ON THE COUNTRY'S MORALE AND ON DEMOCRACY'S SURVIVAL.</p><p>INITIALLY, I AM NOT TALKING ABOUT EXTRADITING COLOMBIAN CRIMINALS FOR THEM TO STAND TRIAL IN OTHER COUNTRIES, BUT OF EXTRADITING DRUG TRAFFICKERS WHO HAVE COMMITTED CRIMES ABROAD. EXTRADITION IS NOT PUNISHMENT FOR SOCIETY BECAUSE IT REFERS ONLY TO DRUG TRAFFICKERS, NEITHER IS IT AN AFFRONT TO SOVEREIGNTY, AS SOME PEOPLE HAVE TRIED TO PORTRAY IT.</p><p>EXTRADITION HAS BEEN DEALT WITH IN COLOMBIAN INTERNATIONAL TREATIES. THE DIRECTION OF INTERNATIONAL POLICY LIES WITHIN THE EXCLUSIVE REALM OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE REPUBLIC, ACCORDING TO THE CONSTITUTION. CONGRESS CANNOT TAKE THE INITIATIVE OF ABOLISHING PUBLIC EXTRADITION TREATIES BY RESORTING TO LEGISLATIVE OR CONSTITUENT PROVISIONS. THIS IS CLEAR IN LIGHT OF COLOMBIAN PUBLIC LAW, AND IT IS IMPERATIVE ACCORDING TO THE VIENNA CONVENTION, WHICH COLOMBIA RECENTLY APPROVED. ACCORDING TO THIS CONVENTION, THE EXTRADITION TREATY WILL PREVAIL OVER INTERNAL PROVISIONS. IN OTHER WORDS, THE TREATIES THAT COLOMBIA HAS SIGNED WITH REGARD TO EXTRADITION CANNOT BE DISREGARDED THROUGH INTERNAL LEGISLATION. THIS CAN ONLY BE DONE THROUGH DIPLOMATIC EFFORTS SUCH AS DENOUNCING THE TREATIES AND DIRECTLY INFORMING THE COUNTERPART.</p><p>FOR 100 YEARS COLOMBIAN LAW HAS AUTHORIZED THE EXTRADITION OF CRIMINALS. I REPEAT, 100 YEARS, SINCE 1888, AND ONLY NOW, WHEN EXTRADITION IS APPLIED TO DRUG TRAFFICKERS, ARE THERE OBJECTIONS TO ITS ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF SOVEREIGNTY. PRACTICALLY ALL THE COUNTRIES OF THE WORLD, WITH VERY FEW EXCEPTION, HAVE AND APPLY TREATIES TO EXTRADITE TERRORISTS OR WHOMEVER COMMITS CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY, SUCH AS DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>OVER THE PAST 10 YEARS, NO MORE THAN 30 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN EXTRADITED TO SEVERAL COUNTRIES THAT REQUESTED THE EXTRADITIONS AND COMPLIED WITH THE NECESSARY LAWS. THEREFORE, EXTRADITION IS NOT A GENERAL THREAT AGAINST ALL COLOMBIANS. IT ONLY AFFECTS THOSE WHO HAVE COMMITTED THE CRIME OF DRUG TRAFFICKING ABROAD. SECONDLY, SOME PEOPLE HAVE SAID THAT EXTRADITION HAS CREATED VIOLENCE AND, THEREFORE, WITH ITS ELIMINATION, VIOLENCE WOULD DISAPPEAR. NEITHER IS TRUE.</p><p>THE VIOLENCE PERPETRATED BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS HAD BEEN SUFFERED PRIOR TO THE 1979 EXTRADITION TREATY. AFTER THE TREATY WENT INTO EFFECT, HUNDREDS OF COLOMBIANS WERE MURDERED, INCLUDING JUSTICE MINISTER RODRIGO LARA BONILLA. IN DECEMBER 1986, A SUPREME COURT DECISION LEFT THE EXTRADITION TREATY INAPPLICABLE. IN OTHER WORDS, AFTER THIS, WHILE EXTRADITION WAS INAPPLICABLE, ATTORNEY GENERAL CARLOS MAURO HOYOS WAS SLAIN, BOGOTA MAYOR ANDRES PASTRANA WAS KIDNAPPED, AND NEWSMAN GUILLERMO CANO, POLITICAL LEADER JAIME PARDO LEAL, AND HUNDREDS OF COLOMBIANS WERE SACRIFICED. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>