<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1038"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1038"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1038</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1038 (TRW)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE VIOLENT AND SURPRISING EVENTS IN VENEZUELA AND ARGENTINA EARLIER IN THE YEAR, WHICH RESULTED IN THOUSANDS KILLED, ARE AN INDICATION OF WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN COMING YEARS. WITH ITS INTERVENTIONIST POLICY, THE UNITED STATES HAS NEGATED OUR PEOPLES' SELF - DETERMINATION AND EMBITTERED THE RELATIONS BETWEEN THE COUNTRIES IN THE AREA. BY PREVENTING THE SOCIAL FORCES FROM ACTING FREELY, THE UNITED STATES PROLONGS THE WAR AND ELIMINATES THE POSSIBILITY OF ACHIEVING TRUE DEMOCRATIZATION. THE U.S. IMPERIALIST POLICY HAS WEAKENED IN THE DECADE ENDING TODAY. LATIN AMERICANISM HAS ADVANCED AND THE TIME OF A DOCILE AND PUPPET CONTINENT HAS BEEN LEFT BEHIND.</p><p>LATIN AMERICAN INTERESTS AND SOCIAL FORCES HAVE MATURED. DESPITE 30 YEARS OF INVASION AND COMMERCIAL FREEZING, CUBA IS STILL UNBEATEN. NICARAGUA HAS RESISTED, HAS DEFEATED 10 YEARS OF WAR WAGED BY MERCENARIES, AND IS PREPARING TO LEGITIMIZE ITS REVOLUTION. IN EL SALVADOR, THE 10 YEARS OF COUNTERINSURGENCY WITH WHICH THE UNITED STATES HAS TRIED TO DEFEAT US AND WHICH THE UNITED STATES HAS TRIED TO IMPOSE ON US HAVE FAILED. THE INSURGENCY PROBLEMS THAT WERE PREVIOUSLY RESOLVED WITH A FEW ADVISERS AND IN A COUPLE OF YEARS REMAIN UNSETTLED IN EL SALVADOR DESPITE A $3 BILLION AID PACKAGE, NEARLY 1,000 ADVISERS, AND 10 YEARS OF BLOODY WAR. IN THE PAST THE PROBLEM OF PANAMA WOULD HAVE BEEN SETTLED WITH A COUP IN A FEW HOURS' TIME, BUT NOW 2 YEARS OF ECONOMIC FREEZING, SUBVERSION, BUSINESSMEN'S STRIKES, ATTACKS, AND THWARTED COUPS WERE NECESSARY. FINALLY, THE UNITED STATES HAD TO USE 30,000 MEN, DESTROY A COUNTRY, AND FIGHT FOR 1 WEEK TO BRING TO SUBMISSION AN ARMY AND A MILITARY HEAD THEY THEMSELVES HAD TRAINED.</p><p>LATIN AMERICANISM IS ON ITS WAY FORWARD. THE DECADE NOW BEGINNING BELONGS TO LATIN AMERICA. THE STRUGGLE IN OUR CONTINENT IS OF AN ANTI-IMPERIALIST NATURE. OUR STRUGGLE, AS EVERYONE KNOWS, STARTED IN CENTRAL AMERICA 10 YEARS AGO WITH THE TRIUMPH OF THE SANDINIST REVOLUTION AND THE BEGINNING OF WAR IN OUR COUNTRY. THIS HAS TURNED THE REGION INTO A TRUE VIETNAM DURING THIS DECADE. BECAUSE OF ALL THIS, THE SACRIFICE THAT OUR STRUGGLE ENTAILS IS GREAT AND THE PROCESS IS COMPLEX, BECAUSE BOTH THE STRUGGLE AND THE PROCESS OCCUR IN A CHANGING WORLD SITUATION. WHILE IN EASTERN EUROPE THE AREAS OF INFLUENCE ARE DISAPPEARING AND THE PEOPLES' SELF - DETERMINATION IS OPENING TO AN UNHINDERED PATH, THE U.S. EMPIRE WALKS IN THE OPPOSITE DIRECTION AND CLINGS TO ITS NEOCOLONIAL DOMINATION OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN. WHAT IS AT STAKE IN EL SALVADOR IS NOT PRECISELY COMMUNISM OR CAPITALISM, BUT DEMOCRACY AND THE CONTINENT'S INDEPENDENCE. LATIN AMERICA ASPIRES, NOT TO A RESTRICTED SOCIETY, BUT TO A SELF-SUFFICIENT DEVELOPMENT AND INTERNAL SOCIAL BALANCE WITH THE PARTICIPATION OF MANY SOCIAL SECTORS. THE CENTRAL AMERICAN SOCIETIES APPEAR TO BE POLARIZED IN THE EYES OF BOTH EMPLOYERS AND WORKERS, BUT THE NEED FOR INDEPENDENCE WILL COALESCE ALL OF THESE FORCES. IN THIS CONTEXT, OUR STRUGGLE, WHICH IS ESSENTIALLY FOR SELF - DETERMINATION AND DEMOCRACY, IS IN THE CAPITALIST WORLD THE SPEARHEAD OF THE STRUGGLE OF ALL LATIN AMERICAN AND THIRD WORLD COUNTRIES, WHICH DEMAND THESE TRANSFORMATIONS. ALL THAT OUR PEOPLE HAVE DONE THESE YEARS AND ALL THAT HAS BEEN CONSTRUCTED BY OUR COMBATANTS, MILITARY COMMANDERS, POLITICAL LEADERS, AND THOSE WHO HAVE WORKED EITHER AS DIPLOMATS OR GUERRILLAS HAS NOW BECOME VERY SIGNIFICANT. THE CHANGES IN STRATEGY, THE RESHUFFLING OF PLANS, THE HEROIC RESISTANCE OF THE MASSES, THE UNITY OF THE REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT, THE POLITICAL - IDEOLOGICAL FLEXIBILITY, THE DEFINITION OF A POLITICAL PLATFORM ADAPTED TO THE DEMAND OF THE STRUGGLE, THE LARGE NUMBER OF BOTH LOCAL AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN ESTABLISHED, AND ALL THAT HAS BEEN CONSTRUCTED WITH THE BLOOD OF THE BEST CHILDREN OF THE PEOPLE CONSTITUTE OUR FULL CONTRIBUTION TO THE CONSTRUCTION OF DEMOCRACY AND SOVEREIGNTY IN EL SALVADOR AND LATIN AMERICA AND HELP MAKE THE PEOPLE'S VICTORY MORE LIKELY THAN EVER. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>