<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0980"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0980"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0980</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0980 (SRI)</p><p>BOGOTA, 12 DEC 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] BRITISH ENGINEER JOHN MARCK JONES [NAME AS RECEIVED], KIDNAPPED BY THE MARXIST-LENINIST NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY [ELN], RESIDES IN COLOMBIA AND BOTH HIS WIFE AND TWO CHILDREN ARE COLOMBIANS, IT WAS OFICIALLY REPORTED TODAY.</p><p>JONES, 45, WHO WAS REPORTED MISSING IN ARAUCA DEPARTMENT IN COLOMBIA'S NORTHEAST EARLY ON 11 DECEMBER, IS THE OWNER OF ALTA TENSION DE COLOMBIA, A POWER COMPANY.</p><p>JONES' RELATIVES TOLD THE LOCAL PRESS THAT, DESPITE THE INITIAL REPORTS, THE BRITISH ENGINEER DOES NOT WORK FOR A MULTINATIONAL CORPORATION.</p><p>IT IS BELIEVED THAT THE ELN MISTOOK HIM FOR THE EMPLOYEE OF SOME FOREIGN COMPANY AND THAT THEY MIGHT BE PLANNING TO DEMAND A RANSOM.</p><p>JONES WAS TAKEN IN A MOUNTAINOUS AREA OF THE CATATUMBO OIL BASIN, NEAR THE BORDER WITH VENEZUELA, WHILE DRIVING WITH TWO FELLOW WORKERS, WHO WERE NOT DETAINED.</p><p>THESE MEN TOLD THE COLOMBIAN POLICE THAT THE KIDNAPPERS IDENTIFIED THEMSELVES AS ELN MEMBERS AND THAT THEY TOOK THE ENGINEER WHEN THEY CONFIRMED HE WAS A FOREIGNER.</p><p>JONES' POWER COMPANY BUILDS POWER SUBSTATIONS IN OIL CAMPS IN THE AREA WHERE HE WAS KIDNAPPED.</p><p>A POLICE SOURCE TOLD EFE THAT A SPECIALIZED AGENCY, WHICH IS INVESTIGATING THE KIDNAPPING, IS TRYING TO DETERMINE THE ENGINEER'S WHEREABOUTS.</p><p>THE ELN HAS A LONG HISTORY OF KIDNAPPINGS AND EXTORTION AGAINST OIL GROUPS, BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEMBERS, AND ENGINEERS.</p></body></html>