<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1200"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1200"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-31"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1200</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1200 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 31 MAR 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [THE "EXTRADITABLES"] [TEXT] 1. ON 28 MARCH 1990, THE ARMY AND THE NATIONAL POLICE ELITE CORPS CARRIED OUT MILITARY OPERATIONS IN THE HIGHER PARTS OF ENVIGADO MUNICIPALITY.</p><p>2. IN SAID OPERATIONS, THE ELITE CORPS ARRESTED COLOMBIAN CITIZENS FREDDY LOPEZ OSPINA AND JOSE CRISTANTO RETAVISTA ARZON, WHO REMAIN MISSING.</p><p>3. IN THE PAST FEW MONTHS IN MEDELLIN, IT HAS BEEN THE CUSTOM OF THE ELITE CORPS TO ARREST PEOPLE AND TAKE THEM TO THE CARLOS HOLGUIN POLICE ACADEMY, WHERE THEY ARE TORTURED AND EXECUTED BY MEMBERS OF THE BOGOTA DIJIN [DIRECTORATE OF JUDICIAL POLICE AND INVESTIGATIONS], WHO ARE IN THE CAPITAL OF ANTIOQUIA.</p><p>4. WE HAVE DENOUNCED THESE EVENTS PUBLICLY ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS, BUT PRESIDENT BARCO HAS RESPONDED IN STATEMENTS TO THE PRESS THAT THOSE MEMBERS OF THE ELITE CORPS ARE DEFENDERS OF DEMOCRACY.</p><p>5. THE COMMANDER OF THE ELITE CORPS IN ANTIOQUIA, AND COLONEL PELAEZ, CHIEF OF THE BOGOTA DIJIN, ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MURDER OF ALL OUR COMRADES AND FOR THE DISAPPEARANCE OF THE TWO AFOREMENTIONED CITIZENS.</p><p>6. IN PREVIOUS COMMUNIQUES, WE PUBLICLY REQUESTED THE CREATION OF SEPARATE PRISONS AND THE PERMANENT ESTABLISHMENT OF A BRANCH OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE IN SUCH PRISONS, BUT THE GOVERNMENT, AN ACCOMPLICE, HAS BEEN SILENT WITH REGARD TO OUR PROPOSALS.</p><p>7. IF THE CITIZENS WHO WERE ARRESTED IN ENVIGADO ARE NOT PRESENTED TO THEIR RESPECTIVE FAMILIES, IN REPRISAL WE WILL PLACE A BOMB CONTAINING 5,000 KG OF DYNAMITE IN ONE OF THE MAIN RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS OF THE BOGOTA OLIGARCHY.</p><p>8. FOR EACH COLOMBIAN WHO IS TURNED OVER TO THE UNITED STATES, WE WILL PLACE A 5,000-KG BOMB IN THE CAPITAL OF THE REPUBLIC.</p><p>9. WE WILL EXECUTE PROGOVERNMENT JUDGES, TRAITOROUS POLITICIANS, TORTURERS, AND THE MAIN MEMBERS OF THE (CANO) FAMILY.</p><p>THE EXTRADITABLES, 30 MARCH 1990</p></body></html>