<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0655"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0655"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0655</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0655 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 7 NOV 89 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [REPORT] [MARIA DE LOS ANGELES TENORIO] [TEXT] THE MSGR OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO FEDERATION OF COMMITTEES OF MOTHERS AND RELATIVES, FECMAFAM, HAS CRITICIZED THE VISIT TO OUR COUNTRY BY BERNARD ARONSON, ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INTER - AMERICAN AFFAIRS. THE GROUP SAID THAT BY REITERATING U.S. GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT THE CONTINUATION OF OUR COUNTRY'S MILITARY STRUGGLE IS ENCOURAGED. HOWEVER, THE GROUP NOTED THAT ARONSON'S PRESENCE ALSO SERVES TO REVEAL A DETERIORATION IN THE IMAGE OF THE ALFREDO CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT BECAUSE OF THE RECENT UPSURGE IN VIOLENCE.</p><p>[BEGING RECORDING] [UNIDENTIFIED PERSON] WHAT DOES YESTERDAY'S VISIT BY THIS U.S. CITIZEN MEAN? IT MEANS THAT U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH IS CONCERNED THAT THE IMAGE OF THE PERSON TO WHOM HE HAS PROVIDED ALL HIS AID TO CONTINUE MURDERING SALVADORANS IS IN DANGER. CRISTIANI HAS BEEN CONDEMNED ABROAD FOR HIS REPRESSIVE ACTIONS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>FECMAFAM ALSO REJECTED THE CREATION OF A COMMISSION TO INVESTIGATE THE FENASTRAS [SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION], AS PROPOSED BY PRESIDENT CRISTIANI. THE GROUP FEELS INVESTIGATIONS OF CRIMES HAVE NEVER BEEN FULLY CONDUCTED AND THE GUILTY HAVE NEVER BEEN TRIED.</p></body></html>