<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0306"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0306"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0306</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0306 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 20 JUL 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE NATIONAL POLICE REPORTED THAT THE ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION-CAMILIST UNION (UC-ELN) TODAY CARRIED OUT ITS SIXTH ATTACK THIS YEAR AGAINST THE PACIFIC OIL PIPELINE, WHICH LINKS THE COLOMBIAN TOWNS OF ORITO AND TUMACO NEAR THE COLOMBIAN-ECUADORAN BORDER.</p><p>THE REBELS USED EXPLOSIVES TO BLOW UP 1 METER OF PIPELINE. THIS IS THE REBELS' 33D ATTACK AGAINST THE COUNTRY'S OIL NETWORK IN 1989. THE AUTHORITIES REPORTED THAT THERE WAS NO OIL SPILL BECAUSE AT THE TIME OF THE ATTACK, NO OIL WAS BEING PUMPED THROUGH THE PIPELINE.</p><p>A WOMAN WHO SAID SHE WAS SPEAKING ON BEHALF OF THE UC-ELN CALLED THE CALI MEDIA TO CLAIM RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACK.</p><p>THE UC-ELN IS ATTACKING COLOMBIA'S OIL PIPELINES AS A WAY TO PRESSURE THE GOVERNMENT TO NATIONALIZE THE OIL INDUSTRY AND TO SIGN MORE FAVORABLE CONTRACTS WITH MULTINATIONAL OIL COMPANIES. THIS YEAR ALONE, THE UC-ELN LAUNCHED 25 ATTACKS ON THE CANO LIMON-COVENAS OIL PIPELINE, THE LONGEST IN COLOMBIA. THE ATTACKS ON THE CANO LIMON- COVENAS PIPELINE HAVE CAUSED APPROXIMATE $150 MILLION IN DAMAGE.</p><p>IF THE SIX ATTACKS ON THE PACIFIC OIL PIPELINE AND THE TWO ON THE DINA-SALGAR OIL PIPELINE ARE TAKEN INTO CONSIDERATION, LOSSES AMOUNT TO APPROXIMATELY $200 MILLION. THE DINA-SALGAR PIPELINE CARRIES CRUDE OIL FROM THE OIL FIELDS IN TOLIMA TO THE REFINERY IN BARRANCABERMEJA.</p></body></html>