<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0077"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0077"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-02-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0077</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0077 (NOSC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 7 FEB 89 -- [TEXT] COLOMBIAN INDUSTRIALIST NORMAL ECHEVARRIA AND U.S. BUSINESSMAN MICHAEL REYFF, KIDNAPPED 11 DAYS AGO IN MEDELLIN, WERE RESCUED TODAY. THE POLICE OPERATION TOOK PLACE ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT'S CAPITAL. NO RANSOM WAS PAID. TWO OF THE KIDNAPPERS WERE KILLED, BUT THE OTHERS MANAGED TO ESCAPE. NEVERTHELESS, THERE IS EVIDENCE THAT COULD LEAD TO THEIR ARREST.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [REPORTER] COLONEL OTALORA, ASSISTANT COMMANDER OF THE MEDELLIN METROPOLITAN POLICE, HOW WERE NORMAL ECHEVARRIA AND U.S. CITIZEN MICHAEL REYFF RESCUED?</p><p>[OTALORA] AT 1700, MEDELLIN METROPOLITAN POLICE MEMBERS WERE ABLE TO RESCUE NORMAL ECHEVARRIA AND MICHAEL REYFF; THEY ARE SAFE AND SOUND. ONCE AGAIN WE THANK THE PEOPLE FOR THEIR TIMELY COOPERATION. [WORDS INDISTINCT] LOCAL BUSINESSMEN LENT US THEIR HELICOPTERS TO SEARCH FOR AND ARREST THE KIDNAPPERS. UNFORTUNATELY IT QUICKLY BECAME DARK AND WE COULD NOT LOCATE THE KIDNAPPERS. HOWEVER, WE HAVE IDENTIFIED THEM AND HOPE TO ARREST THEM IN A FEW HOURS.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT IS THE CONDITION OF THE TWO HOSTAGES?</p><p>[OTALRA] NORMAL ECHEVARRIA IS PERFECTLY ALL RIGHT. HE WILL PROBABLY MEET WITH YOU IN A FEW MINUTES. HE IS VERY HAPPY TO SEE HIS FAMILY. WE ARE PLEASED WITH THE POSITIVE RESULTS OF THIS OPERATION, AND THE NATIONAL POLICE FEEL PROUD. THE PEOPLE OF ANTIOQUIA HAVE BEEN BROUGHT CLOSER TO THEIR POLICE.</p><p>[REPORTER] WAS IT NECESSARY TO PAY A RANSOM? HAD THE FAMILY BEEN ASKED TO PAY A RANSOM?</p><p>[OTALORA] NO, NO RANSOM WAS PAID. MR ECHEVARRIA WILL TELL YOU THAT LATER. THEY ARE PERFECTLY SAFE AND SOUND.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHERE WERE THEY KEPT? CAN YOU DESCRIBE IT?</p><p>[OTALORA] NO, I CANNOT GIVE YOU DETAILS RIGHT NOW. WE WILL PROBABLY ISSUE THAT INFORMATION LATER. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>