<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0257"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0257"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0257</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0257 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 21 JUN 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] THE COLOMBIAN ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION (ELN) ANNOUNCED TODAY FOR THE FIRST THAT THAT IT IS WILLING TO ENGAGE IN A DIALOGUE ON THE COUNTRY'S OIL POLICY. THE ELN HAS CARRIED OUT A DESTRUCTIVE WAVE OF ATTACKS AGAINST THE COLOMBIAN OIL INDUSTRY TO FORCE THE GOVERNMENT TO NATIONALIZE THIS INDUSTRY.</p><p>THE GUERRILLA GROUP'S WILLINGNESS TO PARTICIPATE IN A DIALOGUE IS CONVEYED IN A TAPE SENT TO CONSERVATIVE SENATOR ALVARO LEYVA FROM FORMER SPANISH PRIEST MANUEL PEREZ, WHO IS THE ELN'S FOUNDER AND LEADER. ACCORDING TO LEYVA, PEREZ EXPRESSED HIS WILLINGNESS TO MEET WITH HIM TO EXPLAIN THE GUERRILLA GROUP'S IDEAS ON WHAT COLOMBIA'S OIL POLICY SHOULD BE. LEYVA SAID THAT THE ELN ALSO DEMANDED THAT NATIONALIZATION BE APPLIED TO OTHER NATURAL RESOURCES.</p><p>FURTHERMORE, THE ELN -- WHICH HAS PREVIOUSLY REJECTED THE GOVERNMENT'S PEACE OFFER -- REITERATED ITS DESIRE TO "HUMANIZE" THE CONFLICT BETWEEN THE GUERRILLAS AND THE ARMY, SO THAT THE CIVILIAN POPULATION WILL NOT BE AFFECTED.</p><p>LEYVA HAS PLAYED A LEADING ROLE IN SEEKING A RAPPROCHEMENT BETWEEN GUERRILLA GROUPS AND THE GOVERNMENT. TO THIS END HE HAS MET SEVERAL TIMES WITH M-19 [19 APRIL MOVEMENT] AND REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (FARC) COMMANDERS, WHICH IS WHY THE ELN SELECTED HIM AS THE BEARER OF ITS MESSAGE.</p><p>THE ELN HAS CONCENTRATED ITS TERRORIST ATTACKS AGAINST THE COUNTRY'S MAIN OIL PIPELINE, WHICH EXTENDS 800 KM FROM THE EASTERN TO THE NORTHWESTERN REGIONS OF COLOMBIA. IT HAS CAUSED MILLIONS IN LOSSES TO THE STATE COLOMBIAN PETROLEUM ENTERPRISE [ECOPETROL] AND SERIOUS ECOLOGICAL DAMAGE RESULTING FROM OIL SPILLS.</p><p>IN 1988, IT ATTACKED THE NATION'S PIPELINES APPROXIMATELY 50 TIMES, AND THUS FAR THIS YEAR THE ELN HAS CARRIED OUT 21 ATTACKS. ON 16 JUNE, THE MAIN OIL RESERVES IN THE CARIBBEAN PORT CITY OF COVENAS WERE VIRTUALLY DESTROYED BY SEVERAL DYNAMITE BLASTS SET OFF BY THE GUERRILLAS.</p><p>THIS WAS THE ELN'S MOST DARING AND SERIOUS ATTACK TO DATE. THE ELN CLAIMS THAT THE MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES THAT CARRY OUT OIL EXPLORATION AND DRILLING WITH ECOPETROL ARE "PLUNDERING" COLOMBIA'S NATURAL RESOURCES.</p></body></html>