<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0935"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0935"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0935</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0935 (SRI)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 5 DEC 89 (EL HERALDO) -- [EDITORIAL] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] GUATEMALA, WHERE ARMED GROUPS HAVE CONTINUED TO RUN RAMPANT, HAS BEEN THE VICTIM OF THIS INTERCONTINENTAL INTEREST. NICARAGUA HAS BEEN TAKEN OVER BY THE SANDINIST FORCES, WHICH RECEIVE ARMS OF ALL KINDS.</p><p>MORE ARMS THAN FOOD, MORE INSTRUCTORS THAN AGRICULTURAL EXPERTS, AND MORE ARMS THAN FINANCE ASSISTANCE FOR INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT KEEP REACHING NICARAGUA.</p><p>NICARAGUA HAS BECOME A DISTRIBUTION CENTER FOR OTHER COUNTRIES WHO RAISE PIRATE FLAGS, COUNTRIES WHOSE LEADERS KNOW THAT THE SOVIET UNION IS INTERESTED IN THE FIVE COUNTRIES OF THE ISTHMUS. THIS IS WHY THE SOVIET UNION CONTINUALLY AIDS THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS. THE INTERRUPTION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AND ARMS WOULD ENTAIL FAILURE OF THE STRUGGLE FOR POWER IN CENTRAL AMERICA.</p><p>OVER THE COURSE OF THE TALKS ABOARD SOVIET AND U.S. SHIPS OFF MALTA, BUSH'S POSITION REMAINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERESTS OF BOTH THE U.S. AND OTHER WESTERN COUNTRIES. MANY OF THESE LATTER COUNTRIES ARE THREATENED BY RADICAL AND CLANDESTINE MOVEMENTS.</p><p>WE BELIEVE THAT THE U.S. PRESIDENT HAS JUST TAKEN FIRM STEPS TOWARD A DIRECT UNDERSTANDING WITH THE SOVIET UNION. THIS MEANS THAT THE GUERRILLAS MOVEMENTS IN SEVERAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES WILL HAVE TO CONSENT TO CIVILIZED DIALOGUE SO THEY CAN COEXIST WITH THE MAJORITY OF THE POPULATION, WHO DESIRE TO LIVE IN PEACE, WITH WORK AND DIGNITY.</p><p>EL SALVADOR REPRESENTS THE MOST DANGEROUS EXAMPLE OF THIS INTERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION. IN THIS COUNTRY OPERATES A GUERRILLA MOVEMENT HEAVILY SUPPLIED WITH ARMS AND AMMUNITION. THESE REBELS ARE MILITARILY AND OTHERWISE TRAINED FOR CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS THAT SOW TERROR IN THE THREATENED TOWNS AND VILLAGES. THE SOVIET UNION SUPPLIES THESE ARMS THROUGH CUBA.</p><p>SALVADORAN PRESIDENT CRISTIANI EXPECTS THE ACCORDS REACHED BY THE TWO WORLD LEADERS TO CUT THE SUPPLY OF WAR MATERIEL TO THE FMLN. THIS MATERIEL HAS MADE IT POSSIBLE TO KILL THOUSANDS OF SALVADORANS.</p><p>WE WILL HAVE WAITED FOR THE PASSAGE OF TIME TO SEE IF IT IS TRUE THAT THE SUPPLY OF ARMS HAS CEASED AND THAT NICARAGUA HAS STOPPED ASSISTING THE FMLN.</p><p>WE ONLY HOPE THE FMLN WILL NOT COME TO HONDURAS. THE CABINETS THAT DRAFT WAR PLANS ARE NOW CURRENTLY DISCUSSING THE FMLN'S MOVING INTO HONDURAS.</p></body></html>