<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0492"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0492"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="DHAKA (BANGLADESH)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0492</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0492 (UMASS)</p><p>DHAKA (BANGLADESH), 9 SEP 89 (THE BANGLADESH OBSERVER) -- [TEXT] PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH HAS DECLARED HIS COUNTRY'S WAR AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKERS IN A DRAMATIC MANNER, COMMITTING A MASSIVE FUND OF $7.86 BILLION FOR THE PROGRAMME, PROVIDING INCREASED POWERS TO LAW-ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES AND EVEN OFFERING SUBSTANTIAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO OTHER COUNTRIES, ESPECIALLY IN LATIN AMERICA, FIGHTING THIS MENACE. TO DEAL WITH WHAT HE CALLED, "AMERICA'S TOUGHEST DOMESTIC TEST IN DECADES" DURING HIS STERN ADDRESS ON TUESDAY, THE US LEADER HAS GIVEN A NEW BOOST TO THE CONTINUING INTERNATIONAL CRUSADE AGAINST NARCOTICS.</p><p>THIS NEW INITIATIVE WILL BE WARMLY WELCOMED BY THE WORLD COMMUNITY, MOST OF ALL BY LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES, ESPECIALLY COLOMBIA WHICH IS FIGHTING A DESPERATE BATTLE AGAINST COCAINE BARONS. THE NEWS FROM BOGOTA IS SIMPLY FRIGHTENING. IN THE COUNTRY'S LONG WAR AGAINST DRUG DEALERS, NOTHING LIKE WHAT IS HAPPENING NOW -- THE MERCILESS KILLING OF SECURITY OFFICERS AND THEIR RELATIVES -- HAS EVER HAPPENED BEFORE. SHOULD COLOMBIA LOSE THIS WAR AGAINST COCAINE BARONS, DRUG LORDS IN OTHER LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES WILL FLEX THEIR MUSCLES TOO. TO PUT IT PLAINLY, COLOMBIA CANNOT AFFORD TO LOSE THIS WAR. BUT WHETHER SHE WINS OR LOSSES THIS BATTLE DEPENDS ON WHAT ASSISTANCE THE UNITED STATES CAN PROVIDE TO THIS LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRY.</p><p>HERE, COLOMBIA FACES DIFFICULT OPTIONS. WHILE SHE HAS ACCEPTED SOME LOGISTIC SUPPORT, SUCH AS HELICOPTERS, FROM WASHINGTON, SHE MAINTAINS HERE OPPOSITION TO THE USE OF US TROOPS IN TACKLING WHAT SHE RIGHTLY REGARDS AS A DOMESTIC CRISIS. THE STATEMENT BY MR BUSH ON WEDNESDAY HAS SO FAR MADE NO DIFFERENCE TO THIS OPPOSITION. THE PROBLEM FACING BOGOTA IS, WHILE AN INCREASE IN THE LOGISTIC SUPPORT FROM US WOULD HELP, THE GOVERNMENT CANNOT OVERNIGHT RAISE THE STRENGTH OF ITS ANI-NARCOTIC SECURITY FORCES. WITH THE FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE OFFERED BY THE UNITED STATES, BOGOTA CAN, OF COURSE, BUY ARMS FOR USE AGAINST DRUG BARONS. BUT THE BATTLE WILL STILL BE HARD AND LONG.</p><p>IN FIGHTING THIS RELENTLESS BATTLE AGAINST COCAINE DEALERS, COLOMBIA HAS MADE ONE PERFECTLY VALID POINT, MORE THAN ONCE. TRUE, IT IS THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA TO WIN ITS INTERNAL WAR, WITH ALL THE HELP THAT WASHINGTON CAN PROVIDE. BUT THE REAL BATTLE AGAINST DRUG DEALERS MUST BE FOUGHT WITHIN THE UNITED STATES, ON THE STREETS OF NEW YORK, WASHINGTON, CHICAGO AND ALL OTHER CITIES. THIS IS THE MARKET FOR THE COCAINE BARONS OF COLOMBIA OR FOR THE DRUGS PRODUCED IN THE INFAMOUS GOLDEN TRIANGLE IN ASIA. AND IT IS ALSO WITHIN THE UNITED STATES WHERE ALL THE CHANNELS OF DISTRIBUTION, SOME CONTROLLED BY US CITIZENS, THRIVE UNDER THE EYES OF THE US LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES. THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY MAY ASK IF ENOUGH HAS BEEN DONE TO DEAL WITH THIS PROBLEM AT THE US END.</p><p>THIS STATEMENT BY MR BUSH SUGGESTS THAT HIS ADMINISTRATION HAS RECOGNISED THIS BASIC PROBLEM AND WANTS TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT. A MAJOR PORTION OF THE FUNDING SUPPORT FOR THE ANTI-DRUG WAR WILL BE USED IN STRENGTHENING THE LAW-ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES. BUT QUESTIONS HAVE BEEN RAISED BY MEMBERS OF THE US CONGRESS WHETHER THE PRESIDENT HAS GONE FAR ENOUGH IN THAT DIRECTION. IN FACT, THERE IS SOME DISAPPOINTMENT THAT THE PRESIDENT'S PLAN HAS NOT BEEN "BOLD ENOUGH" EITHER. WHILE ONE MUST ADMIT THAT THE US CONGRESSMEN ARE USED TO MAKING SUCH CRITICISMS AGAINST THE ADMINISTRATION ON PROBLEM ON WHICH THEY THEMSELVES RARELY OFFER ANY NEW INITIATIVE, ONE HOPES THAT THE US ADMINISTRATION WILL KEEP ITS NEWLY-UNVEILED ANTI-DRUG PLAN UNDER CONSTANT SCRUTINY AND ENSURE THAT THE BATTLE THAT COLOMBIA IS BEING URGED TO WIN AT ALL COSTS IS NOT LOST WITHIN THE UNITED STATES.</p></body></html>