<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1285"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1285"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1285</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1285 (BOEING)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 16 MAY 90 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] GOVERNMENT SOURCES ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT THREE POLICEMEN FROM THE GUATEMALA POLICE IDENTIFICATION DEPARTMENT WERE KILLED BY GUERRILLAS OVER THE PAST FEW HOURS IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>POLICE SPOKESMEN SAID THAT POLICEMEN HUMBERTO DIAZ, A DRIVER; EDGAR CORONADO, A PHOTOGRAPHER; AND MARIO NAVARRO, A TECHNICAL SERGEANT, WERE AMBUSHED LAST NIGHT BY GUERRILLAS AT THE SAN ISIDRO FARM, 99 KM SOUTH OF THE CAPITAL.</p><p>THE POLICEMEN WERE ON THE WAY BACK FROM INVESTIGATING THE BURNING OF FIVE BUSES BY REBELS LAST WEEK AND WERE PRESUMABLY KILLED BY GUERRILLAS FROM THE REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATION OF THE PEOPLE IN ARMS (ORPA).</p><p>MEANWHILE, AMALIO ESCOBAR MONZON, 21, A MEMBER OF THE CIVIL SELF-DEFENSE PATROLS (PAC), WAS SHOT TO DEATH IN SAN PABLO, SAN MARCOS DEPARTMENT, IN THE NORTHWESTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>OFFICIAL SOURCES SAID THAT YESTERDAY ARMED MEN BROKE INTO MONZON'S RESIDENCE AND KILLED HIM.</p><p>IN SOLOLA DEPARTMENT, ALSO IN THE NORTHWESTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY, OTHER INSURGENT GROUPS OCCUPIED STRETCHES OF HIGHWAY AND DEMANDED THAT TRAVELERS SURRENDER THEIR MONEY AND BELONGINGS.</p><p>THESE INSURGENT ACTIONS HAVE TAKEN PLACE LESS THAN TWO WEEKS BEFORE THE DIALOGUE THAT WILL BE HELD IN SPAIN BETWEEN GUERRILLA DELEGATES AND THE GUATEMALAN POLITICAL PARTIES TO AGREE ON A POSSIBLE CEASE-FIRE AND TO END 30 YEARS OF INTERNAL STRIFE.</p><p>THE GUATEMALAN NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY UNITY (URNG), WHICH INCLUDES THE ORPA AND OTHER INSURGENT MOVEMENTS, HAS ANNOUNCED THAT IT WILL PARTICIPATE IN THE TALKS BUT IN THE MEANTIME WILL CONTINUE ITS ARMED STRUGGLE.</p></body></html>