<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0710"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0710"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0710</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0710 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] FIGHTING HAS CONTINUED IN SAN MIGUEL. FORCES FROM THE 3D INFANTRY BRIGADE HAVE BEEN DISLODGED FROM THE URBINA BRIDGE AND MANY CASUALTIES WERE INFLICTED ON THEM THERE.</p><p>IN ADDITION, AS WE HAVE ALREADY REPORTED, A HELICOPTER WAS HIT AT THE 15 SEPTEMBER HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. IT WAS SHOT DOWN BY OUR ANTIAIRCRAFT FIRE AT THE 15 SEPTEMBER HOUSING DEVELOPMENT IN SAN MIGUEL AND FELL ON THE PAN-AMERICAN HIGHWAY. LATER, ANOTHER HELICOPTER WAS DAMAGED IN SAN MIGUEL, WHERE HELICOPTER PILOTS DO NOT WANT TO LAND BECAUSE THEY ARE AFRAID OF OUR ANTIAIRCRAFT FIRE.</p><p>ACCORDING TO REPORTS, NATIONAL POLICE POSITIONS IN NUEVA CONCEPCION, CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT, HAVE BEEN ATTACKED. AT 0645, FIGHTING CONTINUES. THE MESS HALL, THE AMMUNITION WAREHOUSE, AND THE TRAINING FIELD HAVE BEEN AFFECTED. THE GARRISON OF THE NATIONAL POLICE HAS SUFFERED CONSIDERABLE DAMAGE.</p><p>FURTHER FIGHTING WAS REPORTED AT 0646 IN ZACATECOLUCA, LA PAZ DEPARTMENT. OUR COMRADES IN ZACATECOLUCA REPORT THAT THE FIGHTING IS HEAVY. WE URGE THE PEOPLE TO ORGANIZE TO OBTAIN WATER AND FOOD. WE URGE THE PEOPLE TO ORGANIZE AND JOIN THE RANKS OF THE REVOLUTIONARY ARMY.</p><p>REPORTS ARE THAT THERE IS FIGHTING AT THIS MOMENT IN THE MONTSERRAT DISTRICT, NEAR CUSCATLAN STADIUM IN SAN SALVADOR. THE CAPITAL HAS NO POWER AND WATER IS BECOMING SCARCE.</p><p>WITH REGARD TO ELECTRICAL POWER, THE SITUATION IS THE SAME THROUGHOUT THE NATION'S TERRITORY. IN A NUTSHELL, THE HIGH COMMAND HAS COMPLETELY LOST CONTROL OF THE SITUATION. THERE IS NO ELECTRICITY IN MOST OF EL SALVADOR'S TERRITORY AND THERE IS NO TRANSPORTATION BECAUSE IT IS 100 PERCENT PARALYZED. FIGHTING IS TAKING PLACE IN DEPARTMENT CAPITALS AT THIS MOMENT, WHILE THE GUERRILLAS HAVE BEEN FIGHTING IN THE CAPITAL FOR 30 CONSECUTIVE HOURS. HOWEVER, THERE IS ONE IMPORTANT FACTOR NOW. OUR COMRADES' COMMAND ECHELONS, WHO ARE COMMUNICATING WITH US FROM THE CAPITAL'S DISTRICTS, ARE TELLING US THAT YOUTHS ARE MASSIVELY JOINING THE FORTIFICATION WORK -- DIGGING DITCHES, CARRYING FOOD AND AMMUNITION, AND HANDLING LIGHT ARTILLERY PIECES AND MACHINEGUNS; IN OTHER WORDS, ALL THAT IS NECESSARY TO FIGHT INSIDE THE CITIES AND IN THE SUBURBS. THEIR INCORPORATION IN ALL CITIES IS A VERY IMPORTANT FACTOR.</p><p>FOR THIS REASON, WE CALL ON YOUNG PEOPLE IN ALL DEPARTMENTAL CAPITALS TO LOOK FOR OUR FORCES, TO LOOK FOR OUR COMRADES, TO ORGANIZE IN EACH DISTRICT AND HOUSING DEVELOPMENT THE BRIGADES THAT WILL BE IN CHARGE OF THE FOOD SUPPLY, TO DIG MORE DITCHES, TO BUILD ANTIAIRCRAFT SHELTERS, AND TO SUPPLY INFORMATION, WHICH IS ABSOLUTELY IMPORTANT AT THIS MOMENT. WE MUST ORGANIZE THE INFORMATION NETWORK. WE MUST HAVE VIGILANCE IN EVERY CORNER IN EVERY DISTRICT AND NEIGHBORHOOD.</p><p>WE HAVE BEEN TOLD THAT EARLY TODAY THE ARMED FORCES CARRIED OUT A NUMBER OF SEARCHES AND ARRESTS IN THE CAPITAL. WELL, WE CALL ON THE POPULATION TO ORGANIZE AGAINST THE SEARCHES AND ARRESTS. ESTABLISH VIGILANCE. DO NOT LET THEM TAKE AWAY ANYBODY. ARM YOURSELVES -- TAKE OUT YOUR PISTOLS, MAKE MOLOTOV COCKTAILS WITH BOTTLES AND GASOLINE -- IN OTHER WORDS, DEFEND YOURSELVES.</p><p>AT 0704, IT WAS REPORTED TO US FROM SAN SALVADOR THAT FIGHTING IS TAKING PLACE IN EL CARMEN AGAINST THE NATIONAL POLICE. A NEW PLACE HAS BEEN ADDED TO THOSE IN WHICH MILITARY ACTIVITY IS TAKING PLACE.</p><p>MEANWHILE, OTHER REPORTS INDICATE THAT FMLN SNIPERS ARE HARASSING THE ARMY'S MOVEMENTS IN VARIOUS PLACES IN THE CAPITAL. THE REPORT SAYS THAT OUR SNIPERS POSTED IN THE TALLEST BUILDINGS ARE EFFECTIVELY KEEPING THE ARMY PATROLS AND MOVEMENTS AT BAY. THE ARMY IS BEGINNING TO HAVE TROUBLE EVACUATING ITS WOUNDED, BECAUSE IN THE CAPITAL EPISODES ARE NOW TAKING PLACE WHICH HAD BEEN ONLY SEEN IN MORAZAN BEFORE; THAT IS, HELICOPTERS FLYING IN TO PICK UP THE WOUNDED, AS THEY DID IN THE VALLEYS AND THE PLAINS. THIS IS HAPPENING NOW IN THE CAPITAL BECAUSE THE ARMY TROOPS CANNOT ADVANCE INTO CERTAIN AREAS TO PICK UP THEIR DEAD AND WOUNDED, WHO ARE VERY, VERY NUMEROUS. THE HELICOPTERS NOW HAVE TO LAND IN SOCCER FIELDS AND IN OTHER PLACES TO EVACUATE THE WOUNDED. SUCH IS THE SITUATION IN SAN SALVADOR. AS WE HAVE ALREADY REPORTED, FIGHTING CONTINUES IN VARIOUS PLACES IN THE CAPITAL, WHERE THERE ARE FMLN-CONTROLLED AREAS.</p></body></html>