<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0558"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0558"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0558</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0558 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>LIMA, 8 OCT 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] ACCORDING TO A CONFIDENTIAL PERUVIAN MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DOCUMENT PUBLISHED TODAY BY THE LIMA DAILY LA REPUBLICA, THE PERUVIAN SHINING PATH GUERRILLA ORGANIZATION IS PLANNING TO PROVOKE A FOOD SHORTAGE IN LIMA.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE REPORT, THIS ALLEGED SHINING PATH STRATEGY, BASED ON THE THEORY BY THE LEADER OF THE CHINESE REVOLUTION, MAO ZEDONG, "OF LAYING SIEGE TO THE CITY FROM THE COUNTRYSIDE," IS PART OF THE TERRORISTS' EFFORTS TO BOYCOTT THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS OF 12 NOVEMBER 1989 AND, SUBSEQUENTLY, THE GENERAL AND CONGRESSIONAL ELECTIONS OF APRIL 1990.</p><p>ACCORDING TO PASSAGES FROM THE DOCUMENT PUBLISHED IN LA REPUBLICA, THE SHINING PATH "HAS REPORTEDLY GAINED CONTROL OVER AN IMPORTANT SECTOR OF LIMA'S FOOD SUPPLY AND MARKETING NETWORK."</p><p>OFFICIAL SOURCES HAVE POINTED OUT THAT FARMER IN THE VALLEYS OF THE PERUVIAN COAST AREA HAVE BEEN THREATENED BY "SHINING PATH PEOPLE" SO THAT THEY NEITHER HARVEST NOR SELL THEIR PRODUCTS. SIMILAR INTIMIDATING ACTIONS ARE ALSO EXPECTED IN THE SIERRA VALLEYS AND THE PERUVIAN JUNGLE AREA, THE SAME SOURCES NOTED.</p><p>PERUVIAN MILITARY INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS ALSO EXPECT THE TERRORISTS TO TAKE DIRECT ACTION WITHIN THE NEXT FEW DAYS BY BURNING THE TRUCKS THAT SUPPLY LIMA WITH FOODSTUFFS.</p><p>THIS SABOTAGE, THE DOCUMENT POINTS OUT, "WOULD BE ACCOMPANIED BY MASSIVE ACTIONS AGAINST THE ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLY SYSTEM AIMED AT REDUCING THE REFRIGERATED STORAGE CAPACITY OF LIMA'S MAIN FOOD SUPPLIERS."</p><p>THE REPORTS POINTS OUT THAT THE BOYCOTT OF THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS WILL BE ACCOMPANIED BY A "SHINING PATH" CALL TO HOLD A "NATIONAL ARMED STOPPAGE" FOR 12 NOVEMBER 1989, WHICH WILL SERVE AS A TRIAL FOR SIMILAR ACTIONS IN THE APRIL 1990 GENERAL ELECTIONS.</p><p>ELSEWHERE, A CAR BOMB EXPLODED LAST NIGHT IN THE TOWN OF BARRANCA, LIMA DEPARTMENT, CLOSE TO WHERE FORMER EDUCATION MINISTER GROVER PANGO IS STAYING. FOUR PEOPLE WERE INJURED AND PROPERTY WAS DAMAGED.</p><p>TERRORIST GROUPS ALSO BLEW UP SEVERAL HIGH-VOLTAGE TOWERS. A BLACKOUT WAS REPORTED IN BARRANCA AND NEIGHBORING TOWNS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO A REPORT PUBLISHED BY LA REPUBLICA, THE TERRORIST ESCALATION BEGAN LAST FRIDAY [6 OCTOBER] IN LIMA AND TWO POLICEMEN DIED IN THE TOWN OF CERRO BLANCO.</p><p>IN HUANCAYO, THE CAPITAL OF JUNIN DEPARTMENT IN THE PERUVIAN CENTRAL SIERRA, THE SANTA ISABEL HIGH SCHOOL HAS BEEN THE TARGET OF 10 BOMB ATTACKS OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS. THE ATTACKS HAVE APPARENTLY BEEN PERPETRATED BY TERRORISTS WHO HAVE INFILTRATED THEMSELVES INTO THE 5,000 SANTA ISABEL HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS. ONLY PROPERTY DAMAGE HAS BEEN REPORTED AS A RESULT OF THE ATTACKS.</p></body></html>