<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1255"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1255"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1255</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1255 (BOEING)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 1 MAY 90 (AFP) -- [TEXT] SALVADORAN GUERRILLA GROUPS LAUNCHED SEVERAL ATTACKS ON SEVERAL POINTS OF THE SALVADORAN CAPITAL TONIGHT CAUSING BLACKOUTS AND AN UNDETERMINED NUMBER OF DEAD, IN ADDITION TO CAUSING PANIC AMONG THE CITIZENRY.</p><p>MILITARY SPOKESMEN REPORTED THAT THE GUERRILLA ATTACKS BEGAN AT 2130 AND WERE AIMED AT THE PUBLIC SECURITY FORCES' ACADEMY, LOCATED IN THE SOUTHERN SECTOR OF THE CAPITAL, AND MILITARY POSITIONS IN THE WEALTHY ESCALON NEIGHBORHOOD, WHERE THE SHERATON HOTEL IS LOCATED.</p><p>A HEAVY BARRAGE OF RIFLE FIRE AND EXPLOSIONS WERE HEARD FOR APPROXIMATELY ONE HOUR IN THE SAN RAMON AREA, LOCATED IN THE NORTHWESTERN SECTOR OF SAN SALVADOR, WHILE ONE AIR FORCE HELICOPTER OVERFLEW THE CITY.</p><p>THERE WERE ALSO REPORTS OF ATTACKS ON A MILITARY POST AT THE CENTRAL ELECTORAL COUNCIL AND OTHER POSITIONS ON THE NORTHWESTERN OUTSKIRTS OF THE CAPITAL.</p><p>SIMULTANEOUSLY, URBAN GUERRILLA COMMANDOS ATTACKED THE CIVIL DEFENSE GROUP IN THE COSTA RICA NEIGHBORHOOD OF SOUTHERN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>SEVERAL ELECTRIC POLES WERE BROUGHT DOWN IN VARIOUS SECTORS OF THE CITY, CAUSING BLACKOUTS OVER LARGE AREAS.</p><p>THERE ARE STILL NO OFFICIAL REPORTS ON THE NUMBER OF DEAD AND WOUNDED.</p><p>EARLY THIS MORNING, GUERRILLA COLUMNS ATTACKED THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE'S POSITIONS IN MARIONA, LOCATED ON THE NORTHERN OUTSKIRTS OF SAN SALVADOR, KILLING ONE SOLDIER AND WOUNDING ANOTHER.</p></body></html>