<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0887"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0887"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0887</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0887 (GTE)</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 27 NOV 89 (RADIO PEACE AND PROGRESS) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT HAS REJETED THE PROPOSAL FOR AN IMMEDIATE CEASE-FIRE THAT THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN], ACCORDING TO MAURICIO SANDOVAL, SALVADORAN MINISTER OF CULTURE AND COMMUNICATIONS. SANDOVAL WAS INTERVIEWED BY THE U.S. NEWS AGENCY UPI.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN PATRIOTS MADE THIS PROPOSAL IN RESPONSE TO THE OAS RECOMMENDATION REGARDING THE SALVADORAN SITUATION. THE RECOMMENDATION CALLS FOR AN IMMEDIATE RETURN TO NEGOTIATIONS. BISHOP GREGORIO ROSA CHAVEZ OFFERED HIS GOOD OFFICES. VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ HAS ALSO JOINED THE GROUP OF PEOPLE WHO ARE TRYING TO STOP THE VIOLENCE IN EL SALVADOR. ON TUESDAY, 21 NOVEMBER, PEREZ MET WITH OFFICIALS OF THE CRISTIANI ADMINISTRATION, NAMELY JUSTICE MINISTER OSCAR SANTAMARIA AND MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY JUAN PADELA.</p><p>ACCORDING TO CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ, HE ALSO TALKED WITH HIS SALVADORAN COUNTERPART ALFREDO CRISTIANI ON THE PHONE. IN THE COURSE OF THIS TALK HE OFFERED TO HOST A CARACAS MEETING BETWEEN THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND THE REBELS.</p><p>IT WOULD SEEM THAT BECAUSE OF THE NEGATIVE ATTITUDE OF CRISTIANI'S ADMINISTRATION, ALL THESE EFFORTS HAVE NOT YIELDED THE EXPECTED FRUITS. THE FACT IS THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT IS TRYING TO WORSEN THE TERROR. WITH THIS IN MIND, THE GOVERNMENT IS DRAFTING A LAW TO PUNISH THE OPPOSITION. AS A PREVENTIVE MEASURE, CONGRESS HAS ALREADY APPROVED ANTITERRORIST BILLS. THESE BILLS ALLOW THE ARREST OF PEOPLE ON SUSPICION OF ANTIGOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES.</p><p>A SALVADORAN DEPUTY HAS LABELED THESE BILLS UNCONSTITUTIONAL AND CONTRARY TO HUMAN RIGHTS. MEANWHILE, THESE BILLS HAVE ENCOURAGED THE ACURSED DEATH SQUADS. AMERICAS WATCH, A HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATION, HAS REPORTED AN INCREASE OF [WORD INDISTINCT], ARRESTS OF AND THREATS AGAINST FOREIGNERS WHO WORK FOR RELIGIOUS AND HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION BELIEVES THAT THE CRUSADE AGAINST FOREIGN MISSIONARIES IS ENCOURAGED BY THE ULTRARIGHTISTS WHO ARE OPERATING UNDER THE PROTECTION OF THE GOVERNMENT. THE GOVERNMENT GUARANTEES THE REACTIONARIES THEIR IMPUNITY.</p><p>DEATH SQUADS, WORKING CLOSELY WITH REACTIONARY MILITARY MEN AND THE CRISTIANI ADMINISTRATION, ARE MOST CERTAINLY TO BLAME FOR THE RECENT DISGRACEFUL MURDER OF SIX PRIESTS IN EL SALVADOR, ACCORDING TO THE U.S. PUBLICATION THE BOSTON GLOBE. THE PAPER STATES THAT THIS IS OBVIOUS TO ALL AND THAT THE SALVADORAN REGIME AND THE YANKEE GOVERNMENT ARE THE ONLY ONES THAT REFUSE TO ADMIT IT.</p><p>FROM THEIR POINT OF VIEW THIS ATTITUDE IS REASONABLE. WASHINGTON'S POLICY TOWARD EL SALVADOR IS BASED ON THE ULTRARIGTHWING FORCES [WORDS INDISTINCT]. THE BOSTON GLOBE ADDS THAT EVERY YEAR THE TAXPAYERS TAKE OUT OF THEIR POCKETS $500 MILLION TO FINANCE THE ASSISTANCE THAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT GIVES TO EL SALVADOR. SOME OF THIS MONEY GOES TO THE DEATH SQUADS WHICH ARE GUILTY OF THOUSANDS OF MURDERS COMMITED AMID HELLISH TORTURES. IT IS A SIGNIFICANT PIECE OF INFORMATION.</p><p>THE THING IS THAT U.S. OFFICIALS PREFER TO LASH OUT AT THE FICTITIOUS SHIPMENTS OF SOVIET WEAPONS TO EL SALVADOR, FICTITIOUS BECAUSE THERE HAVE BEEN NONE AT ALL. ON THE OTHER HAND, THE USE THAT SUCCESSIVE SALVADORAN REGIMES HAVE MADE OF U.S. AID, HAS ALWAYS BEEN DOWNPLAYED. HOWEVER, IT IS OBVIOUS THAT WITHOUT THE HEFTY U.S. SUBSIDIES, THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT WOULD HAVE BEEN RESOLVED A LONG TIME AGO AND THE NEARLY 100,000 SALVADORANS WHO HAVE DIED IN THE STRUGGLE, WOULD STILL BE ALIVE.</p></body></html>