<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0659"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0659"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0659</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0659 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 9 NOV 89 (EL DIARIO DE HOY) -- [TEXT] THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI YESTERDAY REAFFIRMED ITS WILLINGNESS TO THOROUGHLY INVESTIGATE THE ATTACK AGAINST FENASTRAS [SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION]. IT ALSO MADE AN APPEAL SO THAT NO ACCUSATIONS LACKING SCIENTIFIC SUPPORT ARE MADE IN ORDER NOT TO GENERATE SPECULATIONS THAT POLITICIZE THIS CASE.</p><p>IN AN OFFICIAL COMMUNIQUE, THE GOVERNMENT MADE THE PRECEDING STATEMENT BECAUSE OF THE "BIASED PROPAGANDISTIC CAMPAIGN BEING DEVELOPED BY THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] AND OTHER POLITICAL AND LABOR UNION ORGANIZATIONS, SEEKING TO CREATE A DISTORTED VIEW OF THE RECENT TERRORIST ATTACKS IN THE COUNTRY."</p><p>THE COMMUNIQUE RECALLS THAT ON THE SAME DAY OF THE TERRORIST ATTACK AGAINST FENASTRAS, THE GOVERNMENT CONDEMNED SUCH CRIMINAL ACTION. THE COMMUNIQUE ALSO EXPRESSES THE GOVERNMENT'S INTENTION TO CONDUCT A THOROUGH INVESTIGATION WITHIN A FRAMEWORK WORTHY OF CONFIDENCE. THE GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED TO CREATE A COMMISSION THAT WILL BE COMPOSED OF REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE UNITED NATIONS, THE OAS, CEDES [SALVADORAN EPISCOPAL CONFERENCE], POLITICAL PARTIES, LABOR UNION ORGANIZATIONS -- INCLUDING ONE FROM FENASTRAS -- DR IGNACIO ELLACURIA, THE PROSECUTING ATTORNEY'S OFFICE, AND THE JUSTICE MINISTER.</p><p>HOWEVER, FENASTRAS LEADERS HAVE CONTINUED HINDERING THE INVESTIGATION AT THE SITE OF THE INCIDENT, THE COMMUNIQUE ADDS.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT COMMUNIQUE STATES THAT THE FENASTRAS REFUSAL TO PARTICIPATE IN THE COMMISSION COULD BE INTERPRETED AS "AN INTENTIONAL PLAN BY FENASTRAS LEADERS TO PREVENT THE INVESTIGATION TO DETERMINE WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS TERRORIST ATTACK." THEREFORE, THE GOVERNMENT COMMUNIQUE REQUESTS THE ABANDONMENT OF SUCH AN ATTITUDE.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT, THE COMMUNIQUE ADDS, BELIEVES THAT THE INVESTIGATION IS LEGAL AND THAT FENASTRAS HAS THE MORAL DUTY TO HELP IN THE INVESTIGATION TO CLARIFY THIS CASE.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT CRISTIANI REITERATED ITS APPEAL TO CITIZENS TO ABSTAIN FROM MAKING ACCUSATIONS LACKING SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE, IN ORDER TO PREVENT SPECULATION THAT HAMPERS THE NORMAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE JUDICIAL PROCESS THAT HAS ALREADY BEGUN. THE GOVERNMENT REITERATED THAT "ITS TRUE OBJECTIVE IS TO CLARIFY THIS BARBARIC ACTION AND TO PUNISH THOSE RESPONSIBLE, NO MATTER WHO THEY ARE."</p><p>"WE REQUEST ALL CITIZENS TO ABSTAIN FROM ISSUING SPECULATIVE OPINIONS, AND, SHOULD THEY HAVE SOMETHING TO REPORT THAT WOULD HELP CLARIFY THIS REGRETTABLE INCIDENT, THEY SHOULD DO IT WITHIN THE JUDICIAL PROCESS," THE OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT COMMUNIQUE STATES.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT REAFFIRMED ITS DETERMINATION TO CONTINUE SEARCHING FOR PEACE THROUGH PEACEFUL MEANS AND DIALOGUE. ACCORDING TO THE MEXICO AGREEMENTS, THE FLMN IS ALSO OBLIGED TO CONTINUE WITH THE DIALOGUE PROCESS AND "CANNOT UNILATERALLY WITHDRAW BECAUSE IT WOULD BE VIOLATING NOT ONLY THOSE AGREEMENTS, BUT ALSO THE ASPIRATION OF OUR PEOPLE, WHICH IS TO ATTAIN PEACE," THE COMMUNIQUE SAYS.</p></body></html>