<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0341"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0341"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0341</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0341 (BBN)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 11 AUG 89 (RADIO CHILENA NETWORK) -- [REPORT] [ELIANA HENRIQUEZ] [EXCERPTS] PRESIDENT AUGUSTO PINOCHET HAS REQUESTED ALL HIS MINISTERS OF STATE TO RESIGN. THESE RESIGNATIONS WERE TENDERED IN A DOCUMENT SIGNED BY EACH MINISTER AND DELIVERED TO CABINET CHIEF CARLOS CACERES.</p><p>THIS INFORMATION WAS DISCLOSED BY MINISTER SECRETARY GENERAL OF GOVERNMENT OSCAR VARGAS, WHO HAS ALSO RESIGNED, AT THE END OF A COUNCIL OF MINISTERS.</p><p>VARGAS NOTED THAT THE NEW CABINET WILL BE SWORN IN ON WEDNESDAY, 16 AUGUST, AT 1800.</p><p>THE FOLLOWING MINISTERS HAVE RESIGNED IN ORDER TO RUN AS SENATORIAL CANDIDATES DURING THE UPCOMING ELECTIONS: LABOR MINISTER GUILLERMO ARTHUR, WHO PLANS TO REPRESENT THE EIGHTH REGION, AND PUBLIC WORKS MINISTER BRUNO SIEBERT, WHO INTENDS TO REPRESENT THE TENCH REGION.</p><p>ECONOMY MINISTER PABLO BARAONA WILL PROBABLY ALSO RUN FOR A CONGRESSIONAL SEAT.</p><p>MINISTER VARGAS ALSO SAID THAT DURING THE MEETING THEY HAD DISCUSSED THE PUBLIC ORDER. HE ASSERTED THAT THE COUNTRY IS CALM, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF TERRORIST ACTIONS BY THE LAUTARO MOVEMENT.</p></body></html>