<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0749"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0749"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0749</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0749 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 14 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI] [TEXT] GOOD EVENING, SALVADORAN PEOPLE--IF I MAY SAY, SO DESPITE THE CIRCUMSTANCES AFFECTING THE CAPITAL CITY. IT IS REGRETTABLE AND INCONCEIVABLE THAT THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] SHOULD PERSIST WITH THE AGGRESSION IT HAS UNLEASHED AGAINST OUR CAPITAL CITY AND SURROUNDING MUNICIPALITIES. OUR POPULATION HAS SUFFERED THE MOST FROM THIS FMLN AGGRESSION.</p><p>THIS AGGRESSION, SALVADORAN FRIENDS, MUST BE SEEN AS AN ACT OF DESPERATION BY THE FMLN, AS THIS IS THE ONLY WAY WE CAN EXPLAIN THEIR IRRATIONAL ACTIONS. I HAVE USED THE WORD DESPERATION BECAUSE THE FMLN KNOWS THAT IT IS OUT OF STYLE AND THAT ITS ATTITUDES ARE NO LONGER ACCEPTED IN THE WORLD. WE CAN SEE IN EUROPE THAT COUNTRIES HAVE PASSED FROM TOTALITARIAN REGIMES SUCH AS THE ONE THAT THE FMLN WANTS TO IMPLEMENT HERE, AND WALLS ARE OPEN FOR LIBERTY AND DEMOCRACY.</p><p>WE ARE SURE THAT THIS IS WHAT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WANT: LIBERTY AND DEMOCRACY. THAT IS WHY THEY HAVE NOT SUPPORTED AND WILL NEVER SUPPORT THE FMLN TERRORISTS WHO WANT TO SUBJECT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE TO TOTALITARIAN REGIMES, TO DICTATORSHIPS OF OPPRESSION, REPRESSION, AND VIOLATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS.</p><p>I WAS SAYING THAT THIS IS A DESPERATE ACT BECAUSE WE CANNOT SEE HOW ANYONE WHO IS NOT DESPERATE COULD CAUSE SO MUCH HARM TO INNOCENT PEOPLE AND TO THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. THERE ARE ALREADY MORE THAN 100 DEAD OR WOUNDED BECAUSE OF THE FMLN'S IRRATIONAL ACTIONS. OF COURSE, TO THAT WE MUST ADD THAT THEY DESTROYED MANY HOMES WHICH THEY ENTERED AND HAVE HELD FAMILIES AS HOSTAGES. THEY HAVE DAMAGED THE ELECTRICITY, POTABLE WATER, AND TELEPHONE SYSTEMS, DEPRIVING THE POPULATION OF THOSE ESSENTIAL SERVICES, NOT TO MENTION THE LACK OF FOOD AFFECTING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION IN THE AREAS WHERE THEY ARE HOLDING HOSTAGES.</p><p>IN ADDITION, IT IS APPROPRIATE TO SEE HOW FAR THE FMLN TERRORISTS' IRRATIONAL MINDS CAN GO, BECAUSE THEY HAVE CARRIED OUT ACTS OF SAVAGERY THAT WE CANNOT UNDERSTAND. HOW CAN THERE STILL BE ANYONE LIKE THE NICARAGUANS--AND I AM TALKING ABOUT THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT, OF COURSE, NOT ALL NICARAGUANS--AND THE CUBANS, WHO SUPPORT SUCH ACTS OF SAVAGERY.</p><p>HOLDING CIVILIANS AS HOSTAGES, PUTTING THEM IN THE MIDDLE SO THAT THEY WILL BE THE ONES WHO ARE HURT, AND SHIELDING THEMSELVES BEHIND INNOCENT PEOPLE IS AN ACT OF SAVAGERY, SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>TAKING OVER A CENTER FOR ORPHAN CHILDREN IN ORDER TO PROTECT THEMSELVES BEHIND LITTLE CHILDREN WHO DO NOT HAVE A FATHER OR A MOTHER IS AN ACT OF SAVAGERY, SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>THEY EVEN DID SOMETHING WORSE AT THE ZACATECOLUCA HOSPITAL AND THE PEOPLE WITNESSED THIS. WHEN THEY ENTERED THE HOSPITAL IN ZACATECOLUCA, THEY MURDERED, AT GUNPOINT, A SOLDIER WHO WAS RECEIVING MEDICAL ATTENTION; THEY PLACED BOMBS INSIDE THE HOSPITAL AND THEN FLED.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE: THE FMLN IS ALREADY A DESPERATE BEAST. THIS IS THE ONLY THING WE CAN SAY ABOUT SUCH IRRATIONAL MINDS. HOWEVER, WE MUST REALIZE AND UNDERSTAND, AND ABOVE ALL, BE SURE THAT THE MAJORITY OF OUR PEOPLE REPUDIATE THE FMLN TERRORISTS.</p><p>THE PEOPLE MUST KNOW THAT THEY CAN COUNT ON THEIR ARMED FORCES WHICH HAVE ADVANCED SLOWLY, BUT SURELY. IT IS ADVANCING SLOWLY BECAUSE IT WANTS TO FULLY PROTECT THE LIVES OF CIVILIANS. THE ARMED FORCES COULD DRIVE THOSE TERRORISTS OUT OF WHERE THEY ARE; HOWEVER, THERE ARE CIVILIANS THERE, AND WE WOULD NEVER WANT TO EXPOSE THOSE CIVILIANS TO THE DANGER THE FMLN IS TRYING TO LEAD THEM INTO. THE ARMED FORCES HAVE CONTINUED TO ADVANCE. THEY HAVE EFFECTIVELY ADVANCED, USING PROFESSIONAL MEANS. FOR EXAMPLE, NEIGHBORHOODS SUCH AS BOSQUES DEL RIO ARE TOTALLY CALM NOW, BECAUSE THE ARMED FORCES HAVE ALREADY ENTERED AND FORCED THE TERRORISTS OUT. WE KNOW THAT ALL OF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SEE AN END TO THIS TERROR THAT THE FMLN WANTS TO CREATE. HOWEVER, WE MUST ALSO UNDERSTAND, PARTICULARLY THOSE OF US WHO ARE NOT AS ANGUISHED AT THIS MOMENT AS THOSE FAMILIES THAT HAVE BECOME FMLN HOSTAGES. THEY TOO, DESERVE THAT WE DO EVERYTHING WE CAN TO ACHIEVE OUR OBJECTIVE; HOWEVER, WE MUST DO SO RESPECTING THE LIVES OF THOSE INNOCENT PEOPLE. THE FMLN FAILED TO ACHIEVE ITS OBJECTIVE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>