<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1009"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1009"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1009</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1009 (TRW)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 18 DEC 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN)] [TEXT] THIS IS A COMMUNIQUE FROM THE GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FMLN TO ALL SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND TO OUR HEROIC LEADERS AND FIGHTERS:</p><p>ON 11 NOVEMBER, ALL OF OUR FORCES BEGAN THE MAJOR NATIONAL OFFENSIVE THAT GAVE A STRATEGIC TURN TO THE WAR. OUR FIGHTERS HAVE CARRIED OUT COUNTLESS HEROIC AND DARING ACTS SINCE THEM. NEITHER THE CONCENTRATION OF THE ELITE BATTALIONS IN SAN SALVADOR NOR THE MILLIONS OF DOLLARS OF U.S. MILITARY ASSISTANCE OR FULL RANGE OF U.S. TECHNOLOGY AND EXPERIENCE COULD PREVENT OUR FORCES FROM ENTERING AND OCCUPYING EXTENSIVE URBAN AREAS AND ORGANIZING STRATEGIC HARASSMENT OF THE CITY.</p><p>OUR HEROIC FIGHTERS ASSAULTED THE COUNTRY'S FIVE MAJOR VITAL CENTERS -- SAN SALVADOR, SAN MIGUEL, SANTA ANA, USULUTAN, AND ZACATECOLUCA. BEGINNING ON THE 11TH, THE WAR THEATRE IRREVERSIBLY MOVED FROM THE COUNTRYSIDE TO THE MAIN CITIES. TO POSTPONE IMMINENT COLLAPSE AND TO STOP A PEOPLE'S UPRISING, THE FATALLY WOUNDED MILITARY LEADERSHIP AND THE FASCIST GOVERNMENT ORDERED THAT THE LOW-INCOME NEIGHBORHOODS BE BOMBARDED. THEY DID NOT CARE HOW MANY CIVILIAN LIVES IT WOULD COST. WITH ALL OF ITS ELITE AND REGULAR BATTALIONS, THE ENEMY ARMY WAS REDUCED TO THE DEFENSIVE AND TO GUARDING THE CITIES. EXTENSIVE AREAS AROUND THE REST OF THE COUNTRY ARE LIBERATED TERRITORY.</p><p>THE WAR IS NOW WHERE IT CAN BE DEFINED -- IN THE VITAL CENTERS. THERE IS NO WAY THE OLIGARCHS' EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC PROGRAM CAN TAKE OFF AND THE FASCIST GOVERNMENT OF ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE], WITH ITS GENOCIDAL BRUTALITY UNMASKED, IS INTERNATIONALLY ISOLATED AND HATED BY THE PEOPLE FOR ITS CRIMES.</p><p>THIS GREAT EFFORT OF AUDACITY AND HEROISM THAT BEGAN ON 11 NOVEMBER HAS PLACED THE MILITARY LEADERSHIP AND THE CRISTIANI ADMINISTRATION IN THEIR MOST CRITICAL POSITION OF THE 9 YEARS OF WAR. THUS FAR, DURING THIS EXTRAORDINARY EFFORT -- WHICH HAS GIVEN TO EL SALVADOR AND THE WORLD REAL HOPE FOR DEMOCRACY AND PEACE FOR OUR COUNTRY -- 401 OF THE MOST GENEROUS AND BRAVE SONS OF OUR HOMELAND HAVE FALLEN IN COMBAT. THIS LIST IS HEADED BY OUR DEAR AND UNFORGETTABLE COMRADE COMMANDER DIMAS RODRIGUEZ, TO WHOM WE OWE DECISIVE CONTRIBUTIONS IN THE CONDUCT OF OUR STRUGGLE TOWARD VICTORY.</p><p>THE FOLLOWING MILITARY COMMANDERS WHO FELL IN COMBAT ALSO MADE A CONTRIBUTION: JORGE ORLANDO SANDOVAL CERVELLON, COMMANDER OSCAR; JEHOVA VASQUEZ, COMMANDER CIRILO; OVIDIO LOPEZ, COMMANDER ORLANDO MORALES; COMMANDER MISAEL GALLARDO; COMMANDER NICOLAS ALBERTO SARAVIA, WILBERT; COMMANDER RICARDO MIRANDA, ESTEBAN RUIZ; AND THE COMMANDER ODIR POLITICAL DIRECTORS [RESPONSABLES] -- JOSE SANTOS YANEZ, PEPE; AND MILAGRO ALVARADO, JUDY.</p><p>WE RELEASE THE NAMES OF THESE HEROES IN ORDER FOR THE PEOPLE TO REGISTER THEM ETERNALLY IN THE HIGHEST PLACE IN OUR HISTORY. THEIR DEVOTION MULTIPLIES AND STRENGTHENS THE PEOPLE'S POWER. HUNDREDS OF NEW FIGHTERS ALREADY HAVE THE WEAPONS AND ENTHUSIASM OF THOSE WHO HAVE FALLEN. THEY ARE AT THE FRONTLINE OF THIS POWER OF THE FUTURE WHICH IS BUILDING, BEFORE THE WORLD'S ADMIRING EYES, DEMOCRATIC AND JUST EL SALVADOR.</p><p>ALONGSIDE OUR HEROES, THOUSANDS OF OTHER SALVADORANS HAVE FERTILIZED THE PATH TO PEACE WITH THEIR BLOOD, VICTIMS OF THE FATALLY WOUNDED BEAST -- THE FENASTRAS [SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION) UNION MEMBERS, THE JESUIT PRIESTS, THE ANONYMOUS PEOPLE MASSACRED IN THE GENOCIDAL BOMBINGS.</p><p>THE REALIZATION OF A GENUINE AND DEFINITIVE CHANGE IS ENSURED BY THE GREAT POWER OF OUR REVOLUTIONARY ARMY, OF ALL OF OUR PEOPLE, AND OF WORLD SOLIDARITY. THOSE WHO FELL TAUGHT TO US THE COURAGE AND DETERMINATION TO FINISH THIS EXTRAORDINARY EFFORT, TO CONQUER WHAT WE THINK THE PEOPLE JUSTLY DESERVE -- DEMOCRACY, PROGRESS, AND PEACE.</p><p>ETERNAL GLORY TO THE HEROES AND MARTYRS, BUILDERS OF DEMOCRACY AND PEACE. THE OFFENSIVE CONTINUES, VICTORY IS NEAR.</p><p>[SIGNED] FMLN GENERAL COMMAND; COMMANDERS SALVADOR SANCHEZ CEREN, JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS, EDUARDO SANCHO, FRANCISCO JOVEL, AND SHAFIK JORGE HANDAL.</p><p>[DATED] 18 DECEMBER 1989, EL SALVADOR</p></body></html>