<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0428"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0428"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0428</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0428 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 5 SEP 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] PUBLIC ORDER JUDGES WILL BEGIN WORKING OUT OF THE DAS [ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY] HEADQUARTERS. THIS IS PART OF THE PROTECTIVE MEASURES THE AUTHORITIES ARE IMPLEMENTING TO PREVENT COLOMBIAN JUDGES FROM BEING MURDERED. FURTHERMORE, SECURITY MEASURES AT COURT ENTRANCES CAN BE NOTED, EVEN SUCH IMPLAUSIBLE MEASURES AS THIS: ALL PEOPLE WHO BEAR WEAPONS MUST TURN THEM IN AT THE ENTRANCE IN EXCHANGE FOR A PIECE OF CARDBOARD.</p><p>ALL THESE WEAPONS BELONG TO PEOPLE VISITING THE PALO QUEMADO COURTS. ON SOME DAYS, THERE CAN BE AS MANY AS 100 DIFFERENT CALIBER WEAPONS LYING ON THE TABLE. THEY ARE IDENTIFIED BY SIMPLE, EASILY FORGED PIECES OF CARDBOARD. THIS IS ONE OF THE SECURITY MEASURES USED TO PROTECT JUDGES WORKING HERE. ARMED POLICEMEN CARRY OUT BODY SEARCHES ON VISITORS AND CHECK OUT THE SURROUNDING AREAS, BUT THE JUDGES ARE STILL NERVOUS.</p><p>JUDGES WITH THE MOST RESPONSIBILITIES -- PUBLIC ORDER JUDGES -- YEARN FOR SEVERE RESTRICTIONS SUCH AS THOSE THAT PROTECT ITALIAN JUDGES, WHO CONVENE IN SECURE BUNKERS THAT PROTECT THEM FROM DANGER, BOTH TO THEM AND THEIR FAMILIES. LACKING THOSE FACILITIES, COLOMBIAN JUDGES HAVE ACCEPTED THE OFFER MADE BY THE DAS DIRECTOR.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ORLANDO MORALES, JUDICIAL BRANCH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION SECRETARY] PUBLIC ORDER JUDGES ARE GOING TO WORK OUT OF THE DAS OFFICES.</p><p>[REPORTER] DO YOU KNOW WHEN?</p><p>[MORALES] BEGINNING NEXT WEEK, I BELIEVE. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>