<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0940"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0940"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0940</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0940 (SRI)</p><p>SANTIAGO, NO DATE (RADIO CHILENA NETWORK) -- [INTERVIEW WITH AYLWIN BY SOLA] [EXCERPTS] [CONTINUED] [SOLA] RELATIONS BETWEEN CHILE AND BOLIVIA HAVE BEEN BROKEN. WHAT DO YOU THINK IS THE BEST WAY TO FACE BOLIVIA'S DEMAND FOR A SEA OUTLET?</p><p>[AYLWIN] FIRST, CHILE MAINTAINS A FIRM STAND ON THIS SUBJECT, A FACT THAT MUST BE CLEARLY UNDERSTOOD BY THE CHILEAN PEOPLE AND THE REST OF THE WORLD. CHILE DOES NOT HAVE ANY BORDER CONFLICTS WITH BOLIVIA. OUR BORDER WITH BOLIVIA HAS BEEN RATIFIED BY AN INTERNATIONAL TREATY THAT WAS FREELY APPROVED BY OUR TWO COUNTRIES. THIS TREATY CONSTITUTES AN OBLIGATORY NORM FOR CHILE AND BOLIVIA.</p><p>SECOND, ACCORDING TO THIS TREATY, CHILE HAS ALWAYS BEEN WILLING TO GRANT BOLIVIA TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES TO PORTS ON THE PACIFIC COAST.</p><p>THIRD, IN FACE OF THE BOLIVIAN ASPIRATIONS TO OBTAIN GREATER FACILITIES OR A NEW TRANSIT SYSTEM, THE FIRST THING TO BE DONE IS TO REESTABLISH DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS. THIS IS A BILATERAL ISSUE BETWEEN BOLIVIA AND CHILE. IT IS NOT AN HEMISPHERIC MATTER OR A MATTER TO BE DECIDED BY INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS.</p><p>I TRUST THAT BOLIVIA AND CHILE WILL REESTABLISH DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS IN AN ATMOSPHERE OF FRIENDSHIP AND COOPERATION. WE MUST BE AWARE THAT THE WORLD IS HEADING TOWARD INTEGRATION AND THAT IT IS MORE CONVENIENT FOR ALL OF US TO ATTAIN THE BEST AND MOST INTEGRATED RELATIONS POSSIBLE. WE MUST SEEK SOLUTIONS AND, AS THE BOLIVIAN PRESIDENT RECENTLY STATED, WE MUST SEEK IMAGINATIVE SOLUTIONS WITH A 21ST CENTURY AND NOT A 19TH CENTURY VIEW. I HOPE THAT WITHIN THIS SPIRIT WE WILL MANAGE NOT ONLY TO REESTABLISH RELATIONS WITH BOLIVIA, BUT TO ESTABLISH SATISFACTORY RELATIONS FOR THE TWO COUNTRIES.</p><p>[SOLA] CHILEAN RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES HAVE NOT BEEN EXCELLENT OVER THE PAST FEW YEARS, AND THE MURDER OF ORLANDO LETELIER IS TIED INTO THIS SITUATION. WHAT IS YOUR OPINION ON THIS SUBJECT, CONSIDERING THAT A U.S. COURT HAS REQUESTED THE EXTRADITION OF GENERAL CONTRERAS AND COLONEL ESPINOZA?</p><p>[AYLWIN] WELL, I HOPE THAT CHILE WILL MAINTAIN THE BEST RELATIONS POSSIBLE WITH ALL THE COUNTRIES OF THE WORLD, INCLUDING THE UNITED STATES, A COUNTRY WITH WHICH WE ARE LINKED FOR MANY REASONS. I DISCUSSED THIS SUBJECT WITH PEOPLE FROM U.S. DIPLOMATIC, POLITICAL, AND ECONOMIC CIRCLES, AND I HAVE NOTED THEIR WILLINGNESS TO IMPROVE RELATIONS AND SOLVE THE PROBLEMS THAT ARE CURRENTLY SEPARATING US AS SOON AS A DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT IS REESTABLISHED.</p><p>I DO NOT THINK THAT AN EXTRADITION WILL SOLVE THE LETELIER CASE BECAUSE IT HAS ALREADY BEEN RULED ON BY THE SUPREME COURT. IT IS WHAT WE LAWYERS REFER TO AS AN ADJUDGED MATTER. I THINK THAT CHILE CAN DEMONSTRATE ITS WILLINGNESS TO HELP CLARIFY THE CASE AND GUARANTEE JUSTICE, AS IT IS OUR [WORD INDISTINCT] PURPOSE IN ALL HUMAN RIGHTS PROBLEMS, SO AS TO SATISFY THE MOST DEMANDING CONSCIENCES OF THE WORLD. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p></body></html>