<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0871"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0871"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0871</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0871 (GTE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 26 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, FMLN] [TEXT] IN VIEW OF THE INTENSIFICATION OF THE COUNTRY'S ARMED CONFLICT AND THE ARMED FORCES' ATTITUDE, THE FMLN REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>1. THAT THE GOVERNMENT, FAR FROM SUSPENDING, HAS INTENSIFIED BOMBINGS AND ARTILLERY ATTACKS. IT IS NOW EVEN USING 105-MM OBUS HOWITZERS IN DENSELY POPULATED AREAS. WE ARE INFORMING THE NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY THAT SUCH BOMBINGS HAVE YIELDED THOUSANDS OF REFUGEES AND DESTROYED THOUSANDS OF HOMES BELONGING TO HUMBLE FAMILIES IN SAN SALVADOR, SAN MIGUEL, USULUTAN, AND ZACATECOLUCA. IN REJECTING A CEASE-FIRE, THE GOVERNMENT HAS TURNED ITS BACK ON THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY.</p><p>2. THAT IN VIEW OF THE RUMORS THAT THE FMLN IS PLANNING TO ATTACK U.S. CITIZENS [7-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] TO NOT ATTACK U.S. PERSONNEL AND INSTALLATIONS. THAT POLICY WAS EVIDENT DURING THE SHERATON HOTEL INCIDENT IN WHICH, ALTHOUGH OUR FORCES ENJOYED AN ADVANTAGE OVER THE GREEN BERETS TRAPPED IN THAT HOTEL, AND DESPITE THE PREVAILING TENSION, THEY RIGOROUSLY ADHERED TO THAT POLICY WITH DISCIPLINE.</p><p>3. THE FMLN DOES NOT ADVOCATE CAPTURING PRISONERS OR CARRYING OUT INDISCRIMINATE ARMED ACTIONS.</p><p>4. WE ALSO ALERT THE ENTIRE NATION AND INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY ABOUT THE GENERALIZED REPRESSION BEING UNLEASHED BY THE ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] GOVERNMENT. THAT PARTY, BY TAKING ADVANTAGE OF THE STATE OF SIEGE AND THE MARTIAL LAW, HAS HASTILY APPROVED THE ANTITERRORIST LAW AS AN INSTRUMENT TO INSTITUTIONALIZE TERROR. THIS LAW SEEKS TO ELIMINATE THE POLITICAL OPPORTUNITIES THAT OUR PEOPLE HAVE ACHIEVED, ALL FORMS OF OPPOSITION, AND TO CONSOLIDATE A FASCIST REGIME. THIS HAS BEEN THE HISTORIC PROJECT OF ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON AND LA TANDONA [REFERENCE TO THE 1966 GRADUATING CLASS OF THE CAPTAIN GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY ACADEMY] WHO NOW CONTROLS THE ENTIRE MILITARY LEADERSHIP.</p><p>[SIGNED] FMLN GENERAL COMMAND</p><p>COMMANDERS FRANCISCO JOVEL, SALVADOR SANCHEZ CEREN, JORGE SHAFIK HANDAL, EDUARDO SANCHO, AND JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS.</p></body></html>