<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1205"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1205"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MADRID (SPAIN)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1205</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1205 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>MADRID (SPAIN), 2 APR 90 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] THE GUATEMALAN VICE PRESIDENT ARRIVED IN MADRID THIS AFTERNOON. ON HIS ARRIVAL HE SPOKE TO OUR CORRESPONDENT, HECTOR ARENAS, AT BARAJAS AIRPORT.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ARENAS] GUATEMALAN VICE PRESIDENT ROBERTO CARPIO WHO IS NOW IN SPAIN SAID THAT HIS GOVERNMENT SUPORTS THE CONCILIATION COUNCIL MEETING TAKING PLACE IN OSLO, WHERE TALKS ARE BEING HELD WITH THE GUATEMALAN GUERRILLAS TO PUT AN END TO THE CLIMATE OF VIOLENCE WHICH THIS CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRY HAS BEEN EXPERIENCING FOR YEARS; SCORES OF PEOPLE ARE DEAD OR MISSING. ACCORDING TO VICE PRESIDENT CARPIO THE INTERNATIONAL SITUATION TODAY IN NO WAY JUSTIFIES TERRORIST ACTIONS OR ARMED MOVEMENTS.</p><p>[CARPIO, IN PROGRESS] ...THIS IS GOOD PROGRESS AND IN THIS CONNECTION TO RECOGNIZE THAT OUR COUNTRIES HAVE CHANGED. IT IS NOT THE GUATEMALA OF FIVE OR SIX YEARS AGO, WHEN THERE WERE AUTOCRATIC AND MILITARY REGIMES. TODAY WE ARE IN A PROCESS OF DEMOCRATIZATION AND IN THIS CONNECTION WE ALL OUGHT TO INVOLVE OURSELVES IN IT. THEREFORE, I THINK, THIS IS THE BEGINING OF SOMETHING WHICH COULD END THE ARMED STRUGGLE IN GUATEMALA, AS IT SHOULD ALSO END THROUGHOUT ALL CENTRAL AMERICA. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>