<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0735"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0735"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0735</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0735 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 14 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] HERE IS A REPORT ON ARMED FORCES MILITARY ACTIONS: IN THE 1ST MILITARY ZONE CLASHES WERE REPORTED IN THE AREAS OF SAN JOSE GUAYABAL AND SAN MARTIN, WHERE THE REBELS WERE TURNED BACK BY THE SOLDIERS ASSIGNED TO THE AREAS. THE REBELS LEFT SUPPLIES AND AMMUNITION BEHIND.</p><p>IN THE MAQUILISHUAT NEIGHBORHOOD IN SOUTHWESTERN SAN SALVADOR, SOLDIERS FROM THE BELLOSO BATTALION FORCED TERRORIST TROOPS WHO WERE ROAMING THE AREA TO FLEE. CLASHES WERE REPORTED IN THE VICINITY OF THE SAN BENITO AND SAN FRANCISCO NEIGHBORHOODS, WHERE THE TROOPS REPELLED THE TERRORISTS WHO WERE TRYING TO CLOSE IN ON THESE RESIDENTIAL AREAS.</p><p>IN THE TOWNSHIP OF EL TULE AGUILARES, CLASHES WERE REPORTED BETWEEN 4TH BRIGADE TROOPS AND TERRORISTS FROM THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN]. THE TERRORISTS WERE REPELLED AND FLED IN DISARRAY.</p><p>ENCOUNTERS WITH FMLN TERRORISTS ALSO OCCURRED ON SAN ANTONIO AVENUE, IN THE AREA OF CUSCATACINGO. THE ATTACKERS FLED, CARRYING SEVERAL WOUNDED COMRADES WITH THEM.</p><p>IN SOYAPANGO, THE FMLN SUBVERSIVES COLDBLOODEDLY MURDERED TWO WATCHMEN AT THE INSA FACTORY.</p><p>FEELING HOUNDED AND HEMMED IN BY THE ARMED FORCES TROOPS, THE FMLN TERRORISTS CONTINUE TO RESORT TO [3-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] TO KIDNAP YOUTHS, ON THIS OCCASION FROM THE AMATEPEC NEIGHBORHOOD ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>IN CIUDAD DELGADO, MEMBERS OF THE SECURITY CORPS ARRESTED THREE PERSONS AND CONFISCATED THE FOLLOWING MATERIAL THEY WERE CARRYING: THREE M-16 RIFLES, A 45-CALIBER PISTOL, AND AMMUNITION FOR M-16 AND AK-47 RIFLES. IN THE TOWN OF SAN MARCOS, THE BRACAMONTE BATTALION CONFISCATED AN AK-47 RIFLE AND A HAND GRENADE.</p><p>THE FMLN TERRORISTS WHO ARE MAKING A DESPERATE RETREAT FROM THE SUBURBS OF SAN SALVADOR HAVE ABANDONED 27 OF THEIR DEAD COMRADES IN CIUDAD CREDISA. THESE PEOPLE SHED THEIR BLOOD IN VAIN FOR IDEALS THAT DO NOT TRULY SEEK THE WELFARE OF SALVADORANS, BUT INSTEAD THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE OPPROBIOUS AND TOTALITARIAN DICTATORSHIP THAT THE FMLN TERRORISTS WOULD LIKE TO IMPOSE. THERE IS NO PLACE FOR THE FMLN HERE IN EL SALVADOR. IT HAS ALWAYS HAD A WARLIKE, VIOLENT POSITION OPPOSED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE CIVILIAN POPULATION.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES HAS CONTROL OVER THE SMALL REDOUBTS IN WHICH THE TERRORISTS, TRYING TO SAVE THEIR LIVES, ARE HIDING IN THE HOMES OF DEFENSELESS SALVADORANS.</p></body></html>