<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0420"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0420"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0420</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0420 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 4 SEP 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] A C-123 HERCULES PLANE HAS BEEN DYNAMITED IN MONTERIA. ACCORDING TO THE DAS [ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY], THE AIRPLANE BELONGS TO THE DRUG ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. THE PLANE HAD BEEN FLYING TO CALI LAST WEEK, BUT IT HAD TO LAND AT THE LOS GARZONES AIRPORT, LOCATED 10 MINUTES FROM MONTERIA, AFTER DEVELOPING MECHANICAL DIFFICULTIES.</p><p>THE C-123 HERCULES PLANE WAS DYNAMITED BY DRUG TRAFFICKING GANGS AS IT SAT IN A DARK SECTION OF THE LOS GARZONES AIRPORT OF MONTERIA. AIRPORT SOURCES SAID THE GRAY PLANE HAD BEEN IN ROUTE TO CALI LAST WEEK, BUT ITS CREW HAD TO LEAVE IT IN MONTERIA BECAUSE OF ITS MECHANICAL DEFECTS. THE POWERFUL DYNAMITE CHARGE WAS PLACED UNDERNEATH THE PLANE. THE EXPLOSION DESTROYED A LARGE PART OF THE CABIN, INSTRUMENT PANEL, AND CONTROLS. THE EXPLOSION OCCURRED DURING A HEAVY DOWNPOUR. THE AUTHORITIES REPORTED THAT THERE WERE NO CASUALTIES.</p><p>THE AIRPLANE WAS UNDER SPECIAL PROTECTION, BUT THE GUARDS WERE INSIDE THE AIRPORT WHEN THE EXPLOSION OCCURRED. ONLY THE AIRPORT PERSONNEL AND CIVIL AERONAUTICS WATCHMEN WERE AT THE TERMINAL WHEN THE EXPLOSION OCCURRED.</p></body></html>