<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1036"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1036"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAVANA (CUBA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1036</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1036 (TRW)</p><p>HAVANA (CUBA), 4 JAN 90 (RADIO REBELDE NETWORK) -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] THE BLOW DEALT TO THE LATIN AMERICAN CONSCIENCE BY THE U.S. INTERVENTION IN PANAMA IS ABOUT TO DEFLATE THE OPTIMISTIC HOPES FOR A JOINT STRUGGLE AGAINST THE DRUG TRADE. EVEN GEORGE BUSH'S 15 FEBRUARY MEETING IN CARTAGENA DE INDIAS, COLOMBIA, WITH THE PRESIDENTS OF BOLIVIA, PERU, AND COLOMBIA -- THE LEADING PRODUCERS OF COCA LEAVES -- IS IN JEOPARDY. PERUVIAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE ALAN GARCIA MADE IT KNOWN THAT HE WILL NOT ATTEND THE MEETING IN PROTEST OF THE PANAMA INVASION. BOLIVIAN PRESIDENT JAIME PAZ ZAMORA IS BEING QUESTIONED BY THE BOLIVIAN SUPREME COURT OVER THE EXTRADITION TO THE UNITED STATES OF FORMER COLONEL LUIS ARCE GOMEZ. THE COURT REGARDS PAZ ZAMORA'S DECISION ON THIS MATTER AS UNDUE EXERCISE OF JURISDICTIONAL POWERS AND AN ATTACK ON THE JUDICIAL BRANCH. BOLIVIAN CHIEF JUSTICE EDGAR OBLITAS CHARGED THAT THE EXTRADITION OF ARCE GOMEZ, WHO WAS A NOTORIOUS DRUG TRAFFICKER, AN EXECUTIONER AND A PLOTTER, HAS PREVENTED THE AUTHORITIES FROM CLEARING UP SEVERAL RECENT EVENTS IN BOLIVIAN HISTORY, WHICH THUS REMAIN JUST PARTIALLY KNOWN.</p><p>FOR ITS PART, COLOMBIA REACTED WITH SURPRISE AND INDIGNATION TO REPORTS THAT THE UNITED STATES PLANS TO ESTABLISH AIRSPACE AND NAVAL PATROLS WITHIN COLOMBIAN JURISDICTION WITHOUT CONSULTING WITH BOGOTA. THE WHITE HOUSE IN WASHINGTON STATED LATER THAT THE PATROLS WILL TAKE PLACE OVER INTERNATIONAL WATERS AND THAT THEY WILL ENTAIL CONCERTED ACTIONS. IT IS KNOWN, HOWEVER, THAT AN EVENTUAL BLOCKADE OF THE COLOMBIAN COAST IS PART OF A PACKAGE OF SPECIAL MEASURES COORDINATED BY U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY DICK CHENEY.</p><p>THE COLOMBIAN POLICE, WHO HAVE BEEN CREDITED WITH SEIZING 80 PERCENT OF THE TOTAL ANNUAL AMOUNT OF COCAINE SEIZED WORLDWIDE, HAVE IN RECENT WEEKS DEALT SEVERE BLOWS TO THE MEDELLIN CARTEL DRUG LORDS. THE PUNITIVE U.S. ACTION WOULD IN PRACTICE ENTAIL THAT THE UNITED STATES DOES NOT RECOGNIZE THESE ACHIEVEMENTS AND WOULD CREATE AN EMBARRASSING SITUATION FOR PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO IN A YEAR WHEN COLOMBIANS WILL ELECT A NEW PRESIDENT, MEMBERS OF CONGRESS, MAYORS, DEPARTMENTAL DEPUTIES, AND COUNCILMEN.</p><p>THE CLAIM THAT THE ACTION IS INTENDED TO MORE EFFECTIVELY PREVENT THE DRUG TRADE IS HIGHLY SUSPICIOUS, TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THAT IT WILL NOT BE MATCHED BY EQUIVALENT STIFF MEASURES IN THE COUNTRY HOLDING THE WORLD RECORD IN DRUG CONSUMPTION AND THAT U.S. TROOPS ARE CURRENTLY OCCUPYING COLOMBIA'S NEIGHBORING COUNTRY, PANAMA.</p><p>WHERE DOES THE U.S. DESIRE TO CHASE CRIMINALS END AND WHERE DOES ITS IMPERIALIST DESIRE TO LIMIT LATIN AMERICAN SOVEREIGNTY AND TO DECIDE THE FATE OF OUR PEOPLES START? THE PANAMANIAN CASE IS AN EXAMPLE. IT IS NOT NOT ONLY LEGITIMATE BUT NECESSARY FOR US TO BE DISTRUSTFUL.</p></body></html>