<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0606"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0606"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0606</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0606 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>LA PAZ, 23 OCT 89 (EFE) -- [EXCERPTS] BOLIVIAN OFFICIALS HAVE EXPRESSED THEIR CONCERN OVER THE PRESENCE OF PERUVIAN SHINING PATH TERRORISTS ON THE BORDER BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES. THE ALSO ANNOUNCED THE DEPLOYMENT OF MILITARY FORCES ALONG THE BORDER.</p><p>IN REMARKS PUBLISHED TODAY BY THE LOCAL PRESS. GENERAL FELIPE CARVAJAL, COMMANDER GENERAL OF THE NATIONAL POLICE, STATED: "THE SHINING PATH IS OPERATING ALONG OUR BORDERS AND WE HAVE DONE NOTHING ABOUT IT SO FAR." [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>DEFENSE MINISTER HECTOR ORMACHEA YESTERDAY ANNOUNCED THAT MILITARY TROOPS WILL BE DEPLOYED FROM BOLIVIAN CITIES TO THE BORDER AREAS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE DEFENSE MINISTER, THE NEXT DEPLOYMENT OF MILITARY FORCES TO REINFORCE THE BORDER AREAS FOLLOWS REPORTS ON "THE UNPRECEDENTED ENTRY OF FOREIGNERS WHO ARE PLUNDERING" THE COUNTRY'S NATURAL RESOURCES, INCLUDING WOOD AND GOLD.</p><p>MOREOVER, THE POLICE COMMANDER HAS STATED THAT TERRORISM "IS A PERMANENT LATENT FACTOR" IN BOLIVIA. AS AN EXAMPLE HE MENTIONED THE INDIAN-MARXIST ORGANIZATION "ZARATE WILLKA ARMED FORCES OF LIBERATION."</p><p>THIS GROUP BEGAN ITS ACTIVITIES IN AUGUST 1988 WHEN IT ATTACKED THE OFFICIAL MOTORCADE IN WHICH THE THEN-SECRETARY OF STATE GEORGE SHULTZ WAS TRAVELING. NO INJURIES WHERE CAUSED BY THE ATTACK.</p><p>ON 24 MAY THIS YEAR, THE SAME ORGANIZATION MURDERED TWO U.S. MORMON MISSIONARIES ON A CROWDED STREET IN LA PAZ.</p></body></html>