<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0203"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0203"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0203</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0203 (ADS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 9 MAY 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] OFFICIAL SOURCES REPORTED TODAY THAT THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLA GROUPS HAVE INCREASED THEIR SABOTAGE AGAINST THE NATIONAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM IN THE PAST FEW HOURS, LEAVING 40 PERCENT OF THE NATIONAL TERRITORY WITHOUT ELECTRICITY, WHILE INTERMITTENT BLACKOUTS HAVE OCCURRED IN THE REST OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE ENTIRE EASTERN ZONE OF THE COUNTRY WAS WITHOUT ELECTRICITY TODAY, ACCORDING TO A REPORT FROM THE LEMPA RIVER HYDROELECTRIC EXECUTIVE COMMISSION (CEL), WHICH STATED THAT ON MONDAY, FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) GUERRILLAS BLEW UP SEVERAL STRUCTURES IN THAT REGION.</p><p>THE REPORT ADDED THAT THE SABOTAGE OCCURRED ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF USULUTAN DEPARTMENT, WHERE OTHER STRUCTURES WERE ALSO BLOWN UP EARLY THIS MORNING. IN THIS CAPITAL, FMLN URBAN COMMANDOES BLEW UP AT LEAST THREE POLES SUPPORTING SECONDARY LINES, AND AN AS YET UNDETERMINED NUMBER OF POLES AND TOWERS IN DIFFERENT LOCATIONS IN THE COUNTRY'S CENTRAL AND WESTERN REGION.</p><p>IN THE WAKE OF THE NEW ATTACKS AGAINST THE ELECTRICAL SYSTEM, ON MONDAY THE CEL STARTED A TURBOGAS PLANT IN THE EASTERN CITY OF SAN MIGUEL TO PARTIALLY SOLVE THE COUNTRY'S ENERGY CRISIS.</p><p>MEANWHILE, NATIONAL POLICE DIRECTOR COLONEL CARLOS GUZMAN SAID THAT THE FMLN WILL ACCELERATE THE SABOTAGE AS 1 JUNE APPROACHES, WHEN THE RIGHT-WING NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA) WILL TAKE POWER.</p><p>COL GUZMAN ALSO ANNOUNCED THAT MILITARY INTELLIGENCE HAS DISCOVERED "PLANS TO MURDER" ARMED FORCES HIGH COMMAND MEMBERS AND FUTURE ARENA ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS. GUZMAN ADDED THAT THE PLANS WOULD BE CARRIED OUT BY FMLN URBAN COMMANDOS. "THE DEATH THREATS DO NOT FRIGHTEN US," HE SAID, WITHOUT PROVIDING DETAILS ON THE GUERRILLAS' PLANS TO CARRY OUT THE MURDERS.</p></body></html>