<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0442"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0442"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0442</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0442 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 7 SEP 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] A 20-KG BOMB WENT OFF AT A BRANCH OF THE CENTRAL MORTAGE BANK LOCATED IN THE BELEN NEIGHBORHOOD OF THE CITY OF MEDELLIN LAST NIGHT, ONLY 2 HOURS BEFORE THE CURFEW WENT INTO EFFECT.</p><p>ON THIS OCCASION, THE TERRORISTS' TARGET WAS A BRANCH OF THE CENTRAL MORTGAGE BANK LOCATED IN THE BELEN NEIGHBORHOOD. ACCORDING TO BOMB EXPERTS WHO WORK FOR THE MEDELLIN METROPOLITAN POLICE, THE DYNAMITE CHARGE, WHICH PARTIALLY DESTROYED THE BANK FACILITIES, WEIGHED 20 KG. FORTUNATELY, NO ONE WAS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN THIS ATTACK.</p><p>WHILE THIS WAS HAPPENING, ANOTHER DYNAMITE CHARGE WAS DEFUSED AT THE SOCIAL SAVINGS BANK IN ITAHUI.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE AUTHORITIES' REPORT, THE TERRORIST ATTACKS CARRIED OUT IN MEDELLIN OVER THE PAST 12 DAYS HAVE KILLED 2 PEOPLE AND WOUNDED AT LEAST 20 OTHERS, INCLUDING JOURNALIST BERNARDETT PARDO OF UNIVISION NETWORK, WHO, ALONG WITH HER CAMERAMAN, WITNESSED THE EXPLOSION OF A BOMB AS THEY WERE HAVING DINNER AT A RESTAURANT.</p><p>THE PROPERTY DAMAGE CAUSED BY ALL THE BOMB ATTACKS IN MEDELLIN ADD UP TO APPROXIMATELY 300 MILLION PESOS. EIGHT PEOPLE HAVE BEEN ARRESTED AND CHARGED WITH TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.</p><p>DURING THE WAVE OF VIOLENCE IN MEDELLIN, THE AUTHORITIES HAVE DEFUSED 14 BOMBS AND CONFISCATED 5 ROCKETS.</p></body></html>