<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0166"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0166"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="PANAMA CITY (PANAMA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0166</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0166 (BELLCORE)</p><p>PANAMA CITY (PANAMA), 8 APR 89 (ACAN) -- [TEXT] NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ORTEGA SAAVEDRA TODAY CRITICIZED THE RATIFICATION OF A BILATERAL MILITARY AID AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND HONDURAS BECAUSE, HE SAID, IT DEALS A BLOW TO THE PEACE AGREEMENT SIGNED IN EL SALVADOR IN FEBRUARY.</p><p>AT THAT MEETING, THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS ASKED GOVERNMENTS BOTH IN AND OUTSIDE THE REGION THAT OPENLY OR COVERTLY PROVIDE AID TO UNCONVENTIONAL FORCES TO IMMEDIATELY HALT THEIR AID.</p><p>ON 29 MARCH, THE U.S. AND HONDURAN GOVERNMENTS RATIFIED THE ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL OF A BILATERAL MILITARY AID AGREEMENT.</p><p>THE NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT MADE THESE REMARKS DURING TODAY'S INAUGURATION OF A HYDROELECTRICAL PROJECT IN ASTURIAS, JINOTEGA, NORTHERN NICARAGUA, THAT WILL SAVE THE COUNTRY APPROXIMATELY 200,000 BARRELS OF OIL EVERY YEAR.</p><p>ORTEGA SAID THAT THE UNITED STATES CANNOT CRITICIZE THE ARMS BUILDUP IN THE REGION WHILE IT PROMOTES MILITARY MANEUVERS AND BRINGS WEAPONRY INTO CENTRAL AMERICA, PARTICULARLY INTO HONDURAS.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT SAID THAT THE PRESENCE OF U.S. TROOPS IN HONDURAS HEIGHTENS TENSION IN THE REGION AND DEALS A BLOW TO THE EL SALVADOR AGREEMENT.</p><p>THE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT INAUGURATED TODAY IS LOCATED IN APANAS LAKE, JINOTEGA DEPARTMENT. IT WILL SEND ELECTRIC POWER TO THE CENTRAL AMERICA AND CARLOS FONSECA PLANTS, WHICH TOGETHER WILL PRODUCE OVER 4 MILLION KILOWATTS OF ELECTRICITY AN HOUR.</p><p>ACCORDING TO AN OFFICIAL SOURCE, LATIN AMERICAN AND EUROPEAN CAPITAL WAS USED FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE ASTURIAS PROJECT, WHICH TOOK 5 YEARS TO COMPLETE.</p></body></html>