<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1203"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1203"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1203</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1203 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 2 APR 90 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [STATEMENT] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] IN CONTRAST, EL SALVADOR, WHICH HAS THE SECOND LARGEST POPULATION IN CENTRAL AMERICA, HAS THE SMALLEST PARLIAMENT WITH ONLY 60 DEPUTIES.</p><p>THE SOCIAL CONFLICT IS WORSENED BY A WAR THAT NO ONE HAS WON. THE TIME HAS COME TO LET CIVILIAN SOCIETY WIN. TO ACHIEVE THAT WE REQUIRE:</p><p>-- THE PURGING, RESTRUCTURING, AND REDUCTION OF THE ARMY AND MOVEMENT TOWARD A CIVILIAN SOCIETY, AN ABSOLUTELY DEMILITARIZED SOCIETY.</p><p>-- THE END OF IMPUNITY THROUGH THE TRIAL AND PUNISHMENT OF THE MASTERMINDS AND PERPETRATORS OF THE ASSASSINATION OF MSGR ROMERO, FENASTRAS MEMBERS, JESUIT PRIESTS, AND DR. OQUELI. THESE TRIALS ARE THE FOUNDATION THAT WILL ENSURE THAT REFORM OF THE JUDICIAL SYSTEM IS CREDIBLE.</p><p>-- GUARANTEES OF THE FRAMEWORK OF DEMOCRATIC LIBERTIES.</p><p>-- VIA A PLESBICITE IN THE 1991 ELECTIONS, THAT THE NEXT ASSEMBLY IMPLEMENT AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION, SUCH AS THE EXPANSION OF THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY AND THE CREATION OF A CONSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR THE DEMILITARIZATION OF SOCIETY.</p><p>-- REFORM OF THE ELECTORAL SYTEM TO REGISTER, BY MAY THIS YEAR AT THE LATEST, NEARLY 3 MILLION ELIGIBLE SALVADORAN VOTERS TO ALLOW THEM TO PARTICIPATE IN THE 1991 ELECTIONS.</p><p>-- THE CARRYING OUT OF THE UPCOMING ELECTIONS WITHOUT A MILITARY PRESENCE AND WITH THE PARTICIPATION OF INTERNATIONAL OBSERVERS AT LEAST SIX MONTHS BEFORE AND UNTIL THE INSTALLATION OF THE NEW ASSEMBLY.</p><p>THE FMLN IS WILLING TO REACH ACCORDS ON ALL THESE ISSUES AND TO IMPLEMENT SIMULTANEOUS STEPS FROM A DE-INTENSIFICATION OF THE WAR AND AN END OF HOSTILITIES TO ACCORDS TO END THE ARMED CONFLICT AND THE REINCORPORATION OF OUR FORCES INTO POLITICAL LIFE IN KEEPING WITH AND PARALLEL TO THE AFOREMENTIONED MEASURES TAKING PLACE.</p><p>WE EXPRESS OUR WILLINGNESS TO FULLY SUPPORT A NATIONAL REGISTRATIO DRIVE TO GIVE ALL ELIGIBLE SALVADORAN VOTERS THE OPPORTUNITY TO VOTE AND CONTRIBUTE TOWARD ENSURING THAT THE UPCOMING ELECTIONS, AS WAS THE CASE IN NICARAGUA, WILL HELP ESTABLISH THE BASES FOR LASTING PEACE.</p><p>PRESIDENTS: THE FMLN'S OBJECTIVES ARE DEMOCRATIZATION, RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS, ESTABLISHMENT OF A GENUINE LEGAL STATE, DEMILITARIZATION, AND ESTABLISHMENT OF A NATIONAL ECONOMIC POLICY AS THE ONLY MEANS TO ENSURE THAT OUR PEOPLE WILL PEACEFULLY MOVE UP TO BETTER LEVELS OF WELL-BEING AND DEVELOPMENT. IN THIS REGARD, WE BELIEVE THAT YOUR BEST CONTRIBUTION WOULD BE TO HELP PROMOTE DEMOCRATIZATION IN EL SALVADOR AND TO ADVOCATE A NEGOTIATIONS PROCESS THAT IS BEGUN AT THE UNITED NATIONS.</p><p>[SIGNED] FMLN GENERAL COMMAND: COMMANDERS SALVADOR SANCHEZ CEREN, FRANCISCO JOVEL, SHAFICK JORGE HANDAL, EDUARDO SANCHO, AND JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS.</p></body></html>