<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1197"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1197"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1197</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1197 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 29 MAR 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE REFORMIST SECTOR OF THE LEFTIST PATRIOTIC UNION (UP) TODAY RESIGNED FROM THE PARTY'S NATIONAL COORDINATING BOARD, CREATING AN UNPRECEDENTED CRISIS IN ITS FIVE YEARS OF POLITICAL LIFE.</p><p>DURING THE SECOND DAY OF ITS PLENUM, TWELVE OF ITS 20 MEMBERS, INCLUDING UP PRESIDENT DIEGO MONTANA CUELLAR, RESIGNED FROM THE NATIONAL COORDINATING BOARD, WHICH ALSO INCLUDES ACTIVISTS OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF COLOMBIA (PCC).</p><p>ACCORDING TO SOURCES CLOSE TO THE UP, THE REFORMIST FACTION RESIGNED FROM THE COORDINATING BOARD BECAUSE IT BELIEVES THAT WHAT IS NEEDED IN COLOMBIA IS A BROAD SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC MOVEMENT, SUCH AS THAT ADVOCATED BY UP PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE BERNARDO JARAMILLO OSSA, WHO WAS ASSASSINATED ON 22 MARCH.</p><p>THE LEFTIST SOURCES CONSULTED BY EFE INDICATED TODAY THAT THE POSSIBILITY OF PARTICIPATING IN THE 27 MAY PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS, AT LEAST WITH A JOINT UP AND PCC CANDIDATE, IS GROWING MORE DISTANT.</p><p>WHILE THE UP'S REFORMIST FACTION REJECTS THE ARMED PATH AS A MEANS TO ACHIEVE POWER, THE SECTOR KNOWN AS THE RADICALS, IN OTHER WORDS, THE EIGHT MEMBERS WHO DID NOT RESIGN FROM THE COORDINATING BOARD, AGREE ON USING DIFFERENT FORMS OF STRUGGLE, INCLUDING GUERRILLA STRUGGLE.</p><p>THE EIGHT MEMBERS WHO DID NOT RESIGN BELONG TO THE PCC.</p><p>IN ADDITION TO MONTANA, LEADERS ANGELINO GARZON, GUILLERMO BANGUERO, ALBERTO ROJAS PUYO, JULIO SANTANA, AND LUIS EMIRO VALENCIA WERE AMONG THOSE WHO RESIGNED.</p><p>AT THE SAME TIME, 12 MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL COMMITTEE, ANOTHER SECTION OF THE PARTY, ALSO RESIGNED. THEY ARE ALSO FROM THE REFORMIST FACTION.</p><p>THE FRICTION WITH THE REFORMISTS OR PERESTROYKA SUPPORTERS BEGAN ON 28 MARCH, THE FIRST DAY OF SESSIONS OF THE PLENUM, WHEN ANGELINO GARZON CHARGED THAT THE PCC HAD INTERCEPTED JARAMILLO OSSA'S LETTERS.</p><p>ANOTHER REASON FOR THE DIVISION WITHIN THE COLOMBIAN LEFT WAS THE NOT VERY FAVORABLE RESULTS IN THE 11 MARCH LEGISLATIVE AND MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS, WHEN THE UP AND THE PCC LOST SEVERAL SEATS IN THE COLOMBIAN CONGRESS.</p><p>UP TO 22 MARCH, THE DAY WHEN JARAMILLO WAS ASSASSINATED, HE WAS THE SINGLE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE OF THE UP AND THE PCC, BUT AFTER HIS DEATH, BOTH PARTIES AGREED TO HOLD A PLENUM TO DECIDE WHETHER THEY WILL PARTICIPATE IN THE ELECTIONS.</p></body></html>