<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0677"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0677"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0677</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0677 (GE)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 NOV 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] NINE PEOPLE WERE WOUNDED--SEVEN CIVILIANS AND TWO SOLDIERS--DURING AN OFFENSIVE LAUNCHED BY THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS IN THE CAPITAL AND OTHER SALVADORAN CITIES, HUMANITARIAN INSTITUTIONS HAVE REPORTED.</p><p>DURING THE OFFENSIVE, GUERRILLAS OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) ATTACKED PRESIDENT CRISTIANI'S RESIDENCE AND MILITARY GARRISONS IN THE CAPITAL AND OTHER CITIES.</p><p>THE RED CROSS SENT DOZENS OF AMBULANCES TO THE AREAS MOST EFFECTED TO EVACUATE THE INJURED AND CITIZENS WHO WERE TRAPPED IN THE CROSSFIRE BETWEEN THE ARMY AND THE GUERRILLAS.</p><p>EARLY SUNDAY MORNING, SPORADIC BOMB EXPLOSIONS AND MACHINEGUN FIRE COULD STILL BE HEARD IN SOME PARTS OF SAN SALVADOR. THE ARMY HAS IMPLEMENTED STRICT CONTROL ON THE DESERTED STREETS.</p><p>RADIO STATIONS WERE ASKED TO JOIN A RADIO NETWORK FROM WHERE THE GOVERNMENT HAS URGED THE POPULATION TO REMAIN CALM. THE NETWORK IS CARRYING INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC WHICH IS INTERRUPTED BY "NEWS BULLETINS" READ BY ARMY SPOKESMEN.</p><p>ALTHOUGH ACCORDING TO REPORTS, NINE PEOPLE WERE HURT, NEITHER THE ARMY NOR THE GUERRILLAS HAVE ISSUED AN OFFICIAL REPORT ON THE POSSIBLE NUMBER OF CASUALTIES.</p><p>ACCORDING TO POLITICAL OBSERVERS, THIS HAS BEEN THE GUERILLAS' LARGEST MILITARY OFFENSIVE IN THE PAST FEW YEARS, AND THE ONE HAVING THE MOST SERIOUS EFFECTS IN THE CAPITAL.</p></body></html>