<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0770"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0770"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0770</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0770 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 9 NOV 89 (PRENSA LIBRE) -- [TEXT] IN AN ANALYSIS OF THE VIOLENCE DURING THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER, THE INFORMATION OFFICE OF THE BUSINESS SECTOR (OFISEM) POINTS OUT THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS NOT BEEN ABLE TO PROVIDE AN ATMOSPHERE OF SECURITY FOR THE PEOPLE SO THAT THE ECONOMY CAN MOVE IN A MANNER FAVORABLE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE STATISTICS ON THE SEPTEMBER VIOLENCE -- TAKEN FROM THE MEDIA -- SHOW THERE IS A SLIGHT IMPROVEMENT IN SOME ASPECTS, BUT THE PREVAILING SITUATION IS OF GREAT CONCERN, THE BUSINESSMEN ADD.</p><p>IN A COMPARISON OF THE STATISTICS FOR AUGUST AND SEPTEMBER, IT IS NOTED THAT 142 MURDERS WERE REPORTED IN SEPTEMBER WHILE 126 WERE REPORTED IN AUGUST. OFISEM ALSO REPORTS THAT 17 KIDNAP CASES WERE REPORTED IN SEPTEMBER, AGAINST 19 CASES IN AUGUST. AS FOR MISSING PERSONS, THERE WERE 12 REPORTED IN SEPTEMBER AND 19 IN AUGUST.</p><p>THE REPORT ADDS THERE WERE 26 CASES OF ASSAULT IN SEPTEMBER, AGAINST 71 CASES IN AUGUST, WHILE THERE WERE 41 CRIMINAL ATTACKS IN SEPTEMBER AND 57 IN AUGUST. CONCERNING ACTIONS BY SUBVERSIVE GROUPS, OFISEM ADDS ONE SUCH ACTION WAS REPORTED IN SEPTEMBER, AND 12 IN AUGUST. FIVE CASES OF NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING WERE REPORTED IN AUGUST, AND ONLY ONE IN SEPTEMBER.</p><p>OFICEM ONCE AGAIN URGES THE AUTHORITIES TO INCREASE THEIR ACTIVITIES TO PROTECT THE SECURITY OF THE GUATEMALANS, WHO DESERVE TO LIVE IN PEACE IN AN ATMOSPHERE THAT IS CONDUCIVE FOR THE PROGRESS OF GUATEMALA.</p></body></html>