<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0195"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0195"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0195</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0195 (ADS)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 1 MAY 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] HONDURAN WORKERS TODAY DEMANDED THE EXPULSION OF U.S. TROOPS AND NICARAGUAN CONTRAS FROM THE COUNTRY, AND THEY DEMANDED HIGHER WAGES, MEASURES TO CONTROL INFLATION, AND THE CREATION OF NEW JOBS.</p><p>THE ANTI-AMERICAN FEELING WAS MORE MARKED AMONG THE MEMBERS OF THE LEFTIST UNITED FEDERATION OF HONDURAN WORKERS (FUTH), WHO BURNED EIGHT U.S. FLAGS.</p><p>THE DEMONSTRATORS ALSO BURNED A COFFIN SYMBOLIZING THE BURIAL OF THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND AND THE U.S. AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID). THEY ALSO BURNED A SCALE MODEL OF THE U.S. PALMEROLA MILITARY BASE IN CENTRAL HONDURAS.</p><p>THE HONDURAN LABOR ORGANIZATIONS HELD SEPARATE MARCHES. THOSE OF THE RIGHT ENDED THEIR DEMONSTRATION AT THE CENTRAL SQUARE, IN FRONT OF THE STATUE OF CENTRAL AMERICAN HERO FRANCISCO MORAZAN, WHILE THOSE OF THE LEFT ENDED THEIR MARCH IN FRONT OF THE MANUEL BONILLA NATIONAL THEATER.</p><p>THE CONSERVATIVE CONFEDERATION OF HONDURAN WORKERS (CTH) AND THE GENERAL WORKERS FEDERATION (CGT) ALSO CONDEMNED THE PRESENCE OF U.S. TROOPS AND OF MORE THAN 10,000 NICARAGUAN CONTRAS IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>"YANKEES GET OUT OF HONDURAS," "CONTRAS GET OUT," "TO PAY THE FOREIGN DEBT IS TO KILL THE PEOPLE," AND "JOBS AND NOT MORE MILITARY AID" WERE SOME OF THE SLOGANS ON PLACARDS AND BANNERS CARRIED BY THE WORKERS.</p><p>THE SPEAKERS FROM THE MAIN LABOR ORGANIZATIONS DEMANDED THAT PRESIDENT JOSE AZCONA'S GOVERNMENT RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS, AMEND THE LABOR CODE, REFORM THE SOCIAL SECURITY INSTITUTE, INCREASE THE MINIMUM WAGE, AND RESPECT THE RIGHT TO WORK AND JOB SECURITY.</p><p>"WE WANT A FREEZE ON PRICES OF STAPLES, HOUSING PROGRAMS, RESPECT FOR NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY, DEMOCRATIZATION IN CENTRAL AMERICA, AND THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PARLIAMENT," CTH SECRETARY GENERAL VICTOR ARTILES SAID.</p><p>THE LABOR ORGANIZATIONS STRESSED THAT THERE CAN BE NO PEACE IN THE COUNTRY WITH MORE THAN 1.2 MILLION UNEMPLOYED AND A POPULATION WITH DEFICIENT HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND FOOD SERVICES.</p><p>THEY ALSO SAID THEY ARE AGAINST THE SHIPMENT OF WEAPONS TO HONDURAS AND AGAINST THE CREATION OF NEW MILITARY UNITS.</p><p>FUTH PRESIDENT HECTOR HERNANDEZ SAID THAT HONDURAS "IS NOT ONLY FACING CONSTANT PRESSURE TO DEVALUE ITS CURRENCY BUT ALSO DAILY PRESSURE TO DEVALUE OUR DIGNITY AS A NATION."</p><p>HERNANDEZ CONDEMNED THE PRESENCE OF U.S. TROOPS AND THE CONTRAS, AND HE SAID THAT "EFFORTS ARE BEING MADE TO MAKE US PAY FOR A FOREIGN DEBT WE DO NOT OWE."</p><p>"THAT DEBT WAS PAID A LONG TIME AGO, AND WE MUST ASK WHETHER IT IS THE DEVELOPED CAPITALIST COUNTRIES THAT OWE US BECAUSE OF THEIR LOOTING OF OUR NATURAL RESOURCES," HE ADDED.</p><p>OSCAR ANIBAL PUERTO, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE HONDURAN HUMAN RIGHTS DEFENSE COMMITTEE (CODEH), SAID THAT THE UNITED STATES, AND NOT THE HONDURAN GOVERNMENT, IS THE ONE THAT ISSUES THE NATIONAL POLICY GUIDELINES.</p><p>PUERTO CONDEMNED HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES THAT HAVE TAKEN PLACE THROUGH ILLEGAL ARRESTS AND THE DISAPPEARANCE OF MORE THAN 100 PEOPLE.</p></body></html>