<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0750"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0750"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAVANA (CUBA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0750</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0750 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>HAVANA (CUBA), 15 NOV 89 (TELE-REBELDE NETWORK) -- [EXCERPTS] COMMANDER IN CHIEF FIDEL CASTRO RUZ, FIRST SECRETARY OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CUBA AND PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCILS OF STATE AND MINISTERS, LAST NIGHT GRANTED AN EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW TO OUR REPORTER, OSCAR SUAREZ, AT THE INAUGURATION OF THE MADRID RESTAURANT IN HABANA VIEJA. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CASTRO] TODAY IS AN IMPORTANT DAY. TODAY, WHEN WE ARE COMMEMORATING THE 470TH ANNIVERSARY OF HAVANA, WE RECEIVED THE NEWS OF THE CRUSHING TRIUMPH OF THE SOUTH-WEST AFRICAN PEOPLE'S ORGANIZATION IN THE NAMIBIAN ELECTIONS BY 57 PERCENT. IT IS A VERY GOOD PERCENTAGE.</p><p>ON THE OTHER HAND, WE ALSO RECEIVED THE NEWS....[REPHRASES] WE ADMIRE THE HEROISM WITH WHICH THE SALVADORANS ARE FIGHTING. IT IS SOMETHING VERY IMPRESSIVE. IT IS A LIKE A LESSON TO IMPERIALISM WHICH IS EUPHORIC AND THINKS THAT THE WORLD IS AT ITS FEET. THEY THINK THAT...</p><p>[SUAREZ, INTERRUPTING] [WORDS INDISTINCT] WHICH IS TERRIBLE.</p><p>[CASTRO] I BELIEVE THE ACTIONS THAT THE SALVADORANS ARE PRESENTLY CARRYING OUT ARE ONE OF THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY FEATS THAT HAVE EVER BEEN WRITTEN. DESPITE THE 10 YEARS [OF STRUGGLE], THE BILLIONS THAT THE UNITED STATES HAS INVESTED IN CREATING THE SALVADORAN ARMY AND SUPPLYING IT WITH THE MOST MODERN TYPES OF ARMS, NOTICE HOW THOSE PEOPLE CAN FIGHT. NOTICE WHAT IS BEING DONE. HOW ARE THEY USING THE YANKEE BOMBS AND PLANES? THEY ARE BEING USED TO MASSACRE THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. JUST NOTICE HOW THEY ARE INDISCRIMINATELY BOMBING THE PEOPLE'S NEIGHBORHOODS WHICH ARE IN THE HANDS OF THE REVOLUTIONARIES. WHAT THE IMPERIALISTS ARE DOING IS SOMETHING REPUGNANT. HOWEVER, I THINK THAT WHAT THE SALVADORANS ARE DOING IS AMAZING, ADMIRABLE. WHAT THEY ARE DOING IS SHOWING THE IMPERIALISTS THAT THE PEOPLE ARE FAR FROM KNEELING BEFORE THEM. THEIR ACTIONS ARE SHOWING IMPERIALISM THAT THE PEOPLE WILL CONTINUE FIGHTING WITHOUT CARING ABOUT THE EUPHORIA THAT CURRENTLY OVERCOMES THEM UNDER THESE CIRCUMSTANCES.</p><p>[SUAREZ] COMMANDER, WHAT ELSE CAN YOU SAY ON THE SUBJECT OF WHY WE HAVE SO MANY FRIENDS? WE, THE CUBANS ARE WHAT WE ARE BECAUSE WE ARE A MIXTURE OF SPANISH AND AFRICAN.</p><p>[CASTRO] I THINK WE HAVE THE FRIENDS WE DO BECAUSE WE HAVE FOLLOWED A POLICY OF PRINCIPLE. I THINK THE FRIENDS WE HAVE ARE BASICALLY DUE TO THE PRESTIGE OF THE REVOLUTION, THE RESPECT THE REVOLUTION MERITS, THE ETHICS OF THE REVOLUTION, AND THE PRINCIPLES OF THE REVOLUTION. NOW, THE FACT THAT WE ARE ALSO A MIXTURE OF CARIBBEANS, THAT IS SOMETHING ELSE. THAT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH POLITICS. [WORD INDISTINCT] REASONS WE CAN HAVE CONGENIALITY. HOWEVER, CONGENIALITY DOES NOT ALWAYS TURN INTO TRUE FRIENDSHIP. THERE COULD BE CONGENIALITY BUT IT DOES NOT RESULT IN FRIENDSHIP. FRIENDSHIP IS MORE A RESULT OF RECOGNITION, ADMIRATION FOR A COUNTRY.</p><p>[SUREZ] DO YOU BELIEVE THAT...</p><p>[CASTRO] THIS SMALL COUNTRY WAS FACING THE EMPIRE, IT BECAME A BASTION OF DIGNITY FOR THE WORLD. I THINK THIS MERITS CERTAIN RECOGNITION AND LIKING. WE CAN BE PROUD OF THAT AND OF THE FRIENDS WE HAVE. I APPRECIATE THESE FRIENDS WHO ARE FRIENDS OF CUBA DESPITE YANKEE PRESSURES. THEY ARE FRIENDS OF CUBA DESPITE YANKEE THREATS, INTRIGUES, AND CAMPAIGNS. THIS SAYS A LOT. THE YANKEES WANTED TO BURY AND DISCREDIT THE REVOLUTION WITH THE MEDIA AGENCIES THEY OWN. HOWEVER, THEY HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO ACHIEVE THAT. THAT IS WHY UNDER THESE CIRCUMSTANCES WE REALLY APPRECIATE THE FRIENDSHIP AND SOLIDARITY THAT OTHER NATIONS RENDER US. ASIDE, FROM THAT, WE ARE CARIBBEANS. WE ARE A GOOD MIXTURE. WE ARE A MIXTURE OF WHICH WE ARE PROUD. WE ARE A MIXTURE OF INDIAN, AFRICAN, AND EUROPEAN. THAT MIXTURE HAS TURNED OUT TO BE VERY GOOD.</p><p>[SUAREZ] WE ALSO HAVE CHINESE MIXTURE IN US.</p><p>[CASTRO] THAT IS TRUE, YOU ARE CORRECT IN REMINDING US OF IT. I THINK THIS MIXTURE HAS ALSO HELPED TO ENRICH THE VIRTUES OF OUR NATION. [PASSAGE INDISTINCT] [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>