<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0777"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0777"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAVANA (CUBA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0777</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0777 (PRC)</p><p>HAVANA (CUBA), 17 NOV 89 (RADIO REBELDE NETWORK) -- [COMMENTARY] [ORLANDO CONTRERAS] [TEXT] FIGHTING CONTINUES TODAY IN SAN SALVADOR, AND FOR THE FIRST TIME, THE TRIUMPHALIST TONE OF THE SALVADORAN ARMY BEGINS TO CHANGE. AN AP CABLE WE RECEIVED THIS MORNING IN OUR NEWSROOM SAYS THE FOLLOWING: THE ARMED FORCES HAVE ACKNOWLEDGED THEY HAVE SERIOUS PROBLEMS IN VARIOUS SUBURBS OF THIS CAPITAL. THIS IS WHAT THE AP CABLE SAYS TEXTUALLY IN ITS HEADLINE.</p><p>IN ADDITION TO THIS SITUATION, THERE IS ANOTHER FACT IN THE BATTLEFIELD TO WHICH THE NEWS AGENCIES HAVE NOT PAID MUCH ATTENTION, WHICH IS ALSO A REFLECTION OF THE TYPE OF COMBAT THAT THE SALVADORAN FORCES ARE FIGHTING. AP ITSELF SAYS THE FOLLOWING: THE WAR BECAME DIRTY WITH THE MURDER OF SIX JESUIT PRIESTS AND TWO WOMEN BY UNIDENTIFIED TERRORISTS WHO ACTED DURING THE CURFEW. FURTHERMORE, THE CABLE SAYS THAT THE CANADIAN EMBASSY IN SAN SALVADOR REPORTED THAT 12 WORKERS FROM THE LUTHERAN CHURCH WERE ARRESTED BY UNIFORMED SECURITY INDIVIDUALS IN DOWNTOWN SAN SALVADOR. AT THE BEGINNING, THE CABLE SAID THAT THE SIX PRIESTS HAD BEEN MURDERED BY UNIDENTIFIED TERRORISTS. LATER, THEY ARE IDENTIFIED AS UNIFORMED INDIVIDUALS.</p><p>AMONG THE PRIESTS MURDERED WAS FATHER IGNACIO ELLACURIA, RECTOR OF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY AND DIRECTOR OF A MAGAZINE WHICH REFLECTED THE PEOPLES' THOUGHTS, NOT ONLY IN EL SALVADOR BUT ALSO IN THE REST OF CENTRAL AMERICA. NONE OF THESE PRIESTS BELONGED TO THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN]. FURTHERMORE, ELLACURIA HIMSELF ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS EXPRESSED OPINIONS WHICH DID NOT CONCUR WITH THOSE OF THE FMLN. HOWEVER, HE FELT THAT A SOLUTION TO THE SALVADORAN PROBLEM COULD NOT EXCLUDE THE PEOPLE'S INCLUSION OF THE FMLN. THE ASSASSINS WHO ACTED UNDER THE PROTECTION OF THE CURFEW ARE FROM THE SALVADORAN ARMY, THEY ARE NOT UNIDENTIFIED TERRORISTS, LIKE THE AP CABLE SAYS. THEY ARE ASSASSINS OF THE SALVADORAN ARMY, THE SAME ARMY WHICH HAS ALL THE SUPPORT OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT. IN THIS, WE CAN ALSO SEE THE DOUBLE STANDARD OF THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION. ON THE ONE HAND, ALL ITS PUBLICITY APPARATUS SAYS TO THE WORLD THAT WASHINGTON IS IN FAVOR OF DEMOCRACY AND RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS. HOWEVER, IN PRACTICE, IT SUPPORTS THE ASSASSINS OF PRIESTS AND SUPPLIES BOMBS AND ROCKETS SO THAT THE SALVADORAN ARMY -- WHICH HAS PLANES AND HELICOPTERS PROVIDED BY THE UNITED STATES -- CAN BOMB THE SALVADORAN CIVILIAN POPULATION.</p><p>THESE ARE THE FACTS. THIS IS THE TRUTH THAT YANKEE PROPAGANDA IS HIDING AND MANIPULATING.</p></body></html>