<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0157"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0157"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0157</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0157 (BELLCORE)</p><p>LIMA, 28 MAR 89 (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [INTERIOR MINISTRY] [TEXT] THIS IS COMMUNIQUE NO. 011-89 RELEASED BY THE INTERIOR MINISTRY WHICH STATES:</p><p>1. ON 27 MARCH, FROM 1710 TO 2250, THE POLICE BASE IN UCHIZA, MARISCAL CACERES PROVINCE, SAN MARTIN DEPARTMENT, WAS ATTACKED BY ARMED NARCOTERRORISTS.</p><p>THE GROUP WAS MADE UP OF APPROXIMATELY 300 MALE MEMBERS OF THE SHINING PATH AND NOTORIOUS LOCAL DRUG TRAFFICKERS, SOME OF WHOM ARE COLOMBIAN. THE MEN ARRIVED IN SIX OR SEVEN TRUCKS FROM TWO OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS. AFTER THE BATTLE, THEY FLED WITH THEIR WOUNDED AND DEAD COMRADES WHICH, ACCORDING TO LOCAL RESIDENTS, TOTALED ABOUT 50 MEN.</p><p>2. THIS IS CONSIDERED A NARCOTERRORIST ATTACK BECAUSE ON 25 MARCH AT 0500, THE NATIONAL POLICE ARRESTED NINE COLOMBIAN DRUG TRAFFICKERS FROM WHOM COCAINE BASE AND WEAPONS SIMILAR TO THE ONES USED BY THE ATACKERS WERE CONFISCATED.</p><p>3. THE AGGRESSORS USED SOPHISTICATED, LONG-RANGE, AUTOMATIC WEAPONS SUCH AS GRENADE LAUNCHERS. THEY ALSO HAD THREE MORTARS, AN ENOUGH AMMUNITION TO MAINTAIN A LONG FIGHT. SOME OF THE CARTRIDGES FOUND IN THE AREA SHOW THAT THEY COME FROM WEAPONS NOT NORMALLY USED IN PERU.</p><p>4. DUE TO A SHORTAGE OF AMMUNITION BECAUSE OF THE ABSENCE OF REINFORCEMENTS, WHO WERE HELD UP BY BAD WEATHER CONDITIONS, THE FOLLOWING POLICEMEN DIED IN COMBAT: MAJOR CARLOS FARFAN CORREA, CAPTAIN WALTER MOSCOSO CARDENAS, LIEUTENANT WALTER RENGUIFO LOPEZ, FIRST SERGEANT WILLIAN ESCALANTE CACERES, CORPORAL ALIPIO ARCELA MADRID, CORPORAL ANTONIO CONTRERAS NAVARRO, CORPORAL LUIS CARDENAS VALERA, CORPORAL REINALDO MACIAS FERNANDEZ, AGENT ERIC FELIX PACHERRI, AGENT HUILA SIBDA AQUINO, OFFICER CARLOS RICRA PAPARA, SERGEANT MAXIMO VERA TOCKSEN, SERGEANT VICTOR SALAZAR CLAVE, SERGEANT VIGIL SEGOVIA REBOLLEDO, SERGEANT RUPERTO MOSCOSO CARRERA, SERGEANT VICTOR RIZO ESCOBEDO, SERGEANT LUIS CASTRO GUISADO, SERGEANT FERNANDO ROJAS BALDEON, SERGEANT LUIS QUIPE MARTINEZ, SERGEANT LEONARDO HUGAZ RAMOS, CORPORAL OLOGUREN GARCIA ORTIZ, CORPORAL ROLANDO AIQUIPA CONTRERAS, GUARD JOSE ZINA CAETANO, AND GUARD ACALARDO JARA SOTO.</p><p>CORPORAL ASPILLA CORDOBA IS MISSING. THREE OTHER CIVILIANS, TWO WOMEN AND A MAN, ALSO DIED AND A YOUNG GIRL WAS WOUNDED.</p><p>5. AT THE END OF A 6-HOUR COURAGEOUS DEFENSE OF THE UCHIZA POLICE STATION, THE NARCOTERRORIST ATTACKERS ROBBED THE LOCAL BRANCHES OF THE NATIONAL BANK AND OF INTERBANK AND, USING SPECIAL TOOLS, OPENED VAULTS, TOOK FUNDS, AND DESTROYED DOCUMENTS.</p><p>THEY ALSO ATTACKED AND ROBBED THREE PHARMACIES AND STORES, THE PUBLIC REGISTRATION OFFICE, AND PRIVATE PROPERTY. THE TERRORISTS ALSO LEFT BULLET HOLES ON THE UCHIZA CHURCH.</p><p>6. THE FOLLOWING OFFICIALS WENT TO UCHIZA EARLY THIS MORNING: THE PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS AND INTERIOR MINISTER, THE DEFENSE MINISTER, THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF THE NATIONAL POLICE AND OTHER SENIOR POLICE OFFICERS. ARMY AND POLICE FORCES WERE ALSO DEPLOYED TO UCHIZA TO SAFEGUARD SECURITY THERE AND IN THE SURROUNDING AREA.</p></body></html>