<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0562"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0562"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAVANA (CUBA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0562</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0562 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>HAVANA (CUBA), 10 OCT 89 (TELE-REBELDE NETWORK) -- [INTERVIEW WITH COMMANDER GASPAR, RODRIGO ASTURIAS, MEMBER OF THE GUATEMALAN NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY UNITY, URNG, MILITARY DIRECTORATE BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [REPORTER] GREETINGS COMRADE. GUATEMALA ALWAYS COMES UP IN CENTRAL AMERICAN NEWS. WE KNOW LITTLE ABOUT GUATEMALA. INTERNATIONAL NEWS AGENCIES BLOCK REPORTS FROM GUATEMALA . WE HAVE LEARNED THAT IN ADDITION TO THE ATMOSPHERE OF CHAOS AND INSTABILITY, REPRESSION HAS INCREASED IN THE LAST 7 MONTHS. IT WAS REPORTED RECENTLY THAT 2,000 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KILLED, 2,500 WOUNDED -- MANY OF THEM CRIPPLED -- AND HUNDREDS -- OVER 800 ARE MISSING. WE HAVE TAKEN THE OPPORTUNITY OF A VISIT PAID BY MR RODRIGO ASTURIAS, WHO IS MEMBER OF THE URNG MILITARY DIRECTORATE AND IS ALSO KNOWN AS COMMANDER GASPAR, NOT ONLY IN GUATEMALA AND CENTRAL AMERICA BUT THROUGHOUT THE WORLD, TO TALK AND CLEAR SOME MATTERS PERTAINING TO GUATEMALA.</p><p>COMMANDER GASPAR: SOME STEPS HAVE BEEN TAKEN TO FIND A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION. THAT IS, STEPS HAVE BEEN TAKEN TO BEGIN A DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE GUERRILLA AND THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT. SOME JOURNALISTS AND SPECIALISTS WONDER IF THE SEARCH FOR A NEGOTIATED SOLUTION IS COMPATIBLE WITH THE SITUATION PREVAILING IN GUATEMALA. WHAT COULD YOU TELL US ABOUT THIS?</p><p>[ASTURIAS] I BELIEVE THIS IS AN INTERESTING QUESTION THAT NEEDS TO BE CLARIFIED. AT THE END OF SEPTEMBER, THE URNG GENERAL COMMAND MADE A NEW PROPOSAL AIMED AT FINDING A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE INTERNAL ARMED CONFLICT OUR COUNTRY IS EXPERIENCING. THE PROPOSAL TO FIND A POLITICAL SOLUTION AND TO ESTABLISH A DIALOGUE AS A FIRST STEP TO CREATE THE CONDITIONS IS VERY IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT ENTAILS AN INCREASED EFFORT IN THE STRUGGLE FOR DEMOCRACY. WE DO NOT THINK OF DIALOGUE AND NEGOTIATION AS A DEMOBILIZATION ELEMENT BUT AS AN EXTREMELY ACTIVE ELEMENT, AS A CLARIFYING ELEMENT, TO FIND AND PUT IN PLACE CONSENSUS WITH DEMOCRATIC SOLUTIONS. THIS IS WHY ALTHOUGH THERE HAS BEEN, IN FACT, AN INCREASE OF REPRESSION -- WHICH BY THE WAY, IT WAS BRUTALLY INTENSIFIED LAST MONTH -- THE PROPOSAL TO FIND A POLITICAL SOLUTION AND THE CALL ALL NATIONAL SECTORS, WITHOUT EXCEPTION, TO BEGIN CONTACTS, TALKS, AND DIALOGUE WITH THE UNRG DESPITE THE FACT THAT THE GOVERNMENT CONTINUES TO REFUSE THEM AND CONTINUES MAINTAINING A CLOSED POSITION. IT IS AN IMPORTANT STEP IN THE DEMOCRATIC STRUGGLE.</p><p>[REPORTER] COMMANDER GASPAR, INSISTING IN THE LAST PART OF YOUR RESPONSE, WHAT ARE THE BASIS IN WHICH THIS TYPE OF TALKS AND DIALOGUE COULD BE INITIATED?</p><p>[ASTURIAS] SINCE OCTOBER 1987, WHEN ITS FIRST DIALOGUE INITIATIVE WAS ESTABLISHED, THE GENERAL COMMAND HAS SAID PREESTABLISHED CONDITIONS ARE NOT NECESSARY BUT THAT THE COUNTRY'S FUNDAMENTAL PROBLEMS SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THE DIALOGUE AND THE PREPARATION OF THE AGENDA. THE MAIN PROBLEM THE COUNTRY HAS AND HAS HAD IN THE LAST FEW YEARS IS THE LACK OF RESPECT TOWARD HUMAN RIGHTS, THE MILITARIZATION OF THE GUATEMALAN SOCIETY, AND THE GENERALIZED OPPRESSION EXPERIENCED. THEREFORE, WE BELIEVE THE MAIN POINT THAT NEEDS TO BE ADDRESSED IN THE AGENDA IS THE DEMOCRATIZATION.</p><p>[REPORTER] SPEAKING OF THE INTERNAL SITUATION FROM THE MILITARY POINT OF VIEW, NEWS AGENCY REPORT EVERY DAY OF MISSING PERSONS, KILLINGS, AND TORTURES. ARE THE ONES EVERYONE KNOWS AS THE DEATH SQUADRONS INCREASING THEIR ACTIVITIES?</p><p>[ASTURIAS] INDEED, THERE HAS BEEN AN INCREASE IN REPRESSION. WE COULD SAY WITHOUT BEING MISTAKEN THAT THERE IS A TERRORIST ESCALATION HEADED BY STATE SECURITY FORCES. IT IS VERY IMPORTANT TO DENOUNCE AND TO BE CLEAR ON THIS BECAUSE THE ONES THAT ARE CARRYING OUT THIS REPRESSION AND THE ONES THAT ARE TAKING FORWARD THIS TERROR CAMPAIGN ARE NOT PARAMILITARY GROUPS AS THE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN LED TO BELIEVE AND THEY ARE NOT EXTREME-RIGHT CIVILIAN GROUPS. THEY ARE ARMY OPERATIVE GROUPS THAT ACT BASED ON INFORMATION, CHARGES, SUSPICIONS, OR MANY TIMES BLINDLY TO SEE WHAT INFORMATION THEY CAN FIND, IN WHAT WAY THEY CAN HIT OR INFILTRATE THE PEOPLE'S AND REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT. WE ARE FACED WITH AN ESCALATION OF THE STRONGEST STATE TERRORISM. IT CANNOT BE CONFUSED WITH DEATH SQUADRONS OR DIFFERENCES WITHIN THE RIGHT WING. THE ARMY IS THE ONE RESPONSIBLE OF THE REPRESSION. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>