<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0344"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0344"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0344</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0344 (BBN)</p><p>LA PAZ, 12 AUG 89 (PRESENCIA) -- [EXCERPT] DEFENSE MINISTER HECTOR HORMACHEA HAS REVEALED THAT THE ARMED FORCES HAVE ASKED TO BE WITHDRAWN FROM THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING BECAUSE THAT MISSION HAS THE DIRECT PARTICIPATION OF THE POLICE.</p><p>ORMACHEA EXPLAINED THAT THE ARMED FORCES' ROLE IN DRUG CONTROL WILL BE EVALUATED BY THE GOVERNMENT AND MILITARY CHIEFS BEFORE A FINAL DECISION IS MADE.</p><p>ORMACHEA MADE THESE COMMENTS DURING HIS FIRST NEWS CONFERENCE TO TALK ABOUT THE VARIOUS ISSUES RELATED TO HIS MINISTRY.</p><p>HE ADDED THAT THE NAVY AND THE AIR FORCE CURRENTLY CARRY OUT A SUPPORT MISSION IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING, AS THE ENTIRE TASK IS CARRIED OUT BY THE MOBIL UNITS FOR RURAL AREAS (UMOPAR), WHICH ARE UNDER THE POLICE.</p><p>IN HIS FIRST WEEK AS THE NEW MINISTER, ORMACHEA HELD PRELIMINARY TALKS WITH SEVERAL MILITARY CHIEFS TO GET FAMILIAR WITH THE ARMED FORCES' ROLE IN CONTROLLING DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>HE SAID: "WE MUST CAREFULLY STUDY AND EVALUATE THE SITUATION TO DETERMINE THE ARMED FORCES' DEGREE OF PARTICIPATION IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING."</p><p>HE SAID THAT THE ARMED FORCES WANTED TO WITHDRAW FROM THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING WHEN IT INITIALLY BEGAN, BUT THEY THEN DECIDED TO CARRY OUT A SUPPORT MISSION. HE ADDED: WE ARE GOING TO STUDY THIS AT THE GOVERNMENT LEVEL, WITH THE PRESIDENT MAKING THE FINAL DECISION ON THE ROLE OF THE ARMED FORCES.</p><p>ORMACHEA ALSO SAID THAT INTERNAL SECURITY IS CLOSELY LINKED TO HOW THE ARMED FORCES ARE EQUIPPED, BUT ALSO TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE COUNTRY, ESPECIALLY IN THE POOREST ZONES AND BORDER AREAS.</p><p>HE SAID THAT THERE HAS BEEN TALK LATELY ABOUT TERRORIST ACTIVITIES, ALTHOUGH THE REPORTS HAVE NOT BEEN VERY CLEAR. THERE WERE APPARENTLY INCURSIONS BY UNIDENTIFIED ARMED GROUPS, MURDER, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES THAT MAY JEOPARDIZE THE COUNTRY'S INTERNAL SECURITY.</p><p>ORMACHEA SAID THAT INTERNAL SECURITY AND NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY WILL CONTINUE TO BE THE ARMED FORCES' MAIN CONCERN.</p><p>REGARDING THE PRESENCE OF FOREIGN MILITARY ADVISORS INVOLVED IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING, ORMAECHEA NOTED THAT "THAT WORK WILL BE USEFUL AS LONG AS IT DOES NOT INTERFERE WITH THE WORK OF BOLIVIAN ORGANIZATIONS."</p><p>HE CONCLUDED BY SAYING THAT CHANGING THE PREVIOUS DEFENSE MINISTRY'S POLICY OF ADMINISTRATIVE CENTRALIZATION OF ECONOMIC RESOURCES IS A POSITIVE STEP. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p></body></html>