<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0149"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0149"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAVANA (CUBA)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0149</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0149 (BELLCORE)</p><p>HAVANA (CUBA), 20 MAR 89 (TASS) -- [TEXT] JOSE RICARDO PERDOMO, CHAIRMAN OF THE CENTRAL ELECTORAL COUNCIL OF EL SALVADOR, ANNOUNCED THE END OF THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS IN THE COUNTRY IN A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW WITH TASS. THE COUNTING OF VOTES IN SUNDAY'S ELECTION IN THE PRESENCE OF FOREIGN OBSERVERS WAS IN PROGRESS, AND PRELIMINARY RESULTS WOULD BE DECLARED LATER ON MONDAY. POLITICAL OBSERVERS BELIEVE THAT ALFREDO CRISTIANI, CANDIDATE OF THE RIGHT-WING NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE, HAS WON.</p><p>STAFF MEMBERS OF THE [CENTRAL ELECTORAL] COUNCIL NOTED IN AN INTERVIEW WITH [TASS] THAT VOTING BEGAN SLOWLY IN THE MORNING. A TOTAL OF 1,835,000 VOTERS WERE REGISTERED IN THE COUNTRY WITH A POPULATION OF FIVE MILLION. ACCORDING TO ESTIMATES OF JOURNALISTS IN SAN SALVADOR, THE PERCENTAGE OF SALVADOREANS WHO ABSTAINED FROM VOTING WAS HIGHER THIS TIME THAN AT THE 1984 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION WHICH WAS WON BY JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE, CANDIDATE OF THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY.</p><p>CONSTANT ARMED CLASHES BETWEEN DETACHMENTS OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT AND ARMY UNITS INTERFERED WITH THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION. ON THE EVE OF THE ELECTION, THE INSURGENT RADIO STATIONS [VENCEREMOS AND FARABUNDO] MARTI BROADCAST REPORTS THAT GUERILLAS WOULD NOT ATTACK POLLING STATIONS. INSURGENTS ATTACKED MILITARY GARRISONS IN MORER THAN 20 INHABITED LOCALITIES THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY ON SUNDAY, PUTTING OUT OF ACTION SOME 150 GOVERNMENT TROOPS. GUERILLAS ALSO DOWNED A HELICOPTER GUNSHIP IN USULUTAN REGION. AS A RESULT OF INSURGENT ACTIONS, A CONSIDERABLE PART OF THE COUNTRY REMAINS WITHOUT ELECTRICITY OR TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION. THE INSURGENT OPERATION TO BLOCK HIGHWAYS AND RAILWAYS CONTINUES.</p><p>[VIDES] CASANOVA, SALVADOREAN MINISTER OF DEFENCE AND PUBLIC SECURITY, ADMITTED THAT THE ELECTION DID NOT TAKE PLACE IN 29 OUT OF 262 DISTRICTS IN THE COUNTRY DUE TO THE FACT THAT THE ARMY COULD NOT RESTORE CONTROL OVER THOSE TERRITORIES.</p><p>APART FROM MOTOR VEHICLES WITH TROOPS AND MILITARY PARTOLS, ONLY TAXIS WITH JOURNALISTS COVERING THE VOTING DROVE IN SAN SALVADOR ON THE ELECTION DAY. PRESS CARS HAD WHITE HANDKERCHIEFS FIXED TO AERIALS. THIS PRECAUTION WAS TAKEN AFTER MILITARY PATROLS KILLED THREE JOURNALISTS: ROBNERTO NAVAS, A REUTER NEWS PHOTOGRAPHER, CORONEL LAGROW, A DUTCH TV CORRESPONDENT, AND MAURICIO PINEDA, A STAFF MEMBER OF SALVADOREAN TELEVISION. LUIS GALDAMEZ, ANOTHER REUTER CORRESPONDENT, WAS SERIOUSLY WOUNDED, AND HIS ARM WILL PROBABLY HAVE TO BE AMPUTATED.</p></body></html>