<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0923"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0923"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0923</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0923 (GTE)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 3 DEC 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] CENTRAL AMERICAN BISHOPS ARE "VERY WORRIED" OVER THE SITUATION OF THE CHURCH AND THE PEOPLE IN EL SALVADOR AND PANAMA, "WHO ARE ENDURING A DIFFICULT TRIAL," ACCORDING TO A DOCUMENT ISSUED BY THE EPISCOPAL SECRETARIAT OF CENTRAL AMERICA AND PANAMA (SEDAC).</p><p>IN THE DOCUMENT, SIGNED BY 42 AREA BISHOPS, THE BISHOPS "EXPRESS APPRECIATION FOR THE COURAGEOUS, EVANGELIC, AND PATRIOTIC ATTITUDE OF THE PANAMANIAN CHURCH, GUIDED BY ITS TRUE CLERGYMEN, IN FACING THE DOUBLE AGGRESSION THEY ARE ENDURING."</p><p>PANAMA IS ENDURING "EXTERNAL SANCTIONS (IMPOSED BY THE UNITED STATES) THAT IMPOVERISH THE COUNTRY, ALONG WITH THE OPEN DENIAL OF FUNDAMENTAL GUARANTEES AND RIGHTS TO THOSE WHO DISAGREE WITH THE POLICY OF THE CURRENT PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT," THE DOCUMENT ADDS.</p><p>REGARDING EL SALVADOR, "WE ARE HURT" BY THE SUFFERING, DEATH, AND DESTRUCTION CAUSED BY THE ESCALATION OF VIOLENCE EL SALVADOR HAS BEEN ENDURING FOR A DECADE.</p><p>"THE USE OF THE CIVILIAN POPULATION FOR THE PROTECTION OF ARMED GROUPS, THE INTENSE BOMBINGS OVER DENSELY POPULATED AREAS (BY THE ARMY), AND THE USE OF THE MEDIA TO STIR UP PEOPLE'S FEELINGS AND INCREASE HATRED AMONG BROTHERS ARE ALL REPULSIVE," THE SEDAC DOCUMENT STATES.</p><p>THE SEDAC RECALLS THAT AMONG THE WAR VICTIMS ARE SIX JESUIT PRIESTS, WHO, FROM THEIR TEACHING PODIUMS, TRIED TO SHAPE MORAL AND JUST CONSCIENCES AMONG THE FUTURE BUILDERS OF SOCIETY. IT ALSO CONDEMNS THE "BRUTAL WAY IN WHICH THEY WERE MASSACRED, WHICH PROVES HOW FAR DOWN THE MORAL SENSE AND HUMAN QUALITY OF THOSE WHO PERPETRATED THE CRIME HAS FALLEN."</p><p>REGARDING PEACE IN CENTRAL AMERICA, THE HIGHEST RANKING LEADERS OF THE CHURCH IN THE AREA POINT OUT THAT THERE ARE MANY FACTORS PREVENTING OR HAMPERING EFFORTS TO BUILD A LONG LASTING PEACE.</p><p>AMONG THE FACTORS THE BISHOPS MENTION IS "THE PERSISTENCE OF SERIOUS SOCIAL PROBLEMS -- HUNGER, UNEMPLOYMENT, THE HIGH COST OF LIVING, AND THE REALITY OF AN UNDERPRIVILEGED CLASS -- YET MOST RULERS AND OTHER BODIES HOLDING POWER DO NOT SHOW ANY DESIRE TO ELIMINATE THESE FACTORS."</p><p>IN ADDITION, THE "CRIMINAL STUBBORNNESS" OF SEARCHING FOR A MILITARY AND ARMED SOLUTION TO THE SITUATION OF VIOLENCE HAS GENERATED "THE DEEPLY ROOTED UNJUSTICE IN OUR REALITY, WHICH IS AGGRAVATED BY THE OUTRAGEOUS MEDDLING OF FOREIGN SUPERPOWERS."</p><p>"THE INTEREST OF A GROUP OR IDEOLOGIES PREVAIL OVER THE NEEDS AND RIGHTS OF CITIZENS," THE SEDAC DOCUMENTS STATES. THE HEADS OF THE CHURCHES OF THE SIX ISTHMIAN COUNTRIES ADD THAT THIS HASTENS THE "CRIMINAL AND IMMORAL" ARMS BUILDUP, WHICH, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF COSTA RICA, HAS LED PEOPLE IN THE AREA INTO INCREASING IMPOVERISHMENT AND A RISE IN THEIR FOREIGN DEBT.</p><p>"THE SMUGGLING OF WEAPONS TO STRENGTHEN SUBVERSIVE MOVEMENTS OF VARIOUS TENDENCIES IS NO LESS OUTRAGEOUS AND CRIMINAL THAN THE EXISTENCE OF DEATH SQUADS OR PARAMILITARY GROUPS," THE SEDAC DOCUMENT ADDS.</p><p>IT IS WORRYING TO SEE HOW SOME NATIONS IN THE AREA PROMOTE CAMPAIGNS SUCH AS "AN EYE FOR AN EYE AND A TOOTH FOR A TOOTH" (PANAMA), OR PROMOTE "ANTITERRORIST" LAWS (EL SALVADOR) THAT CAN BE USED FOR THE OUTRAGEOUS ABUSE OF POWER IN ORDER TO ELIMINATE ADVERSARIES, THE BISHOPS POINTED OUT.</p><p>TO ALL THESE EVILS ONE MUST ADD THE FLIGHT OF CAPITAL, THE INCREASING DRUG TRAFFICKING, AND THE RESULTING CORRUPTION, VIOLENCE, AND DEATH.</p></body></html>