<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0859"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0859"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0859</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0859 (GTE)</p><p>NO CITY, NO DATE -- [REPORT] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] CRISTIANI EMPHASIZED THAT THE ARMED FORCES ARE CAPABLE OF COUNTERING ANY AGGRESSION ON THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. HE ALSO TERMED AS A COMPLETE FAILURE THE TERRORIST OFFENSIVE, WHICH WAS SPURNED BY THE CITIZENRY, ADDING THAT THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY HAD HARSHLY CRITICIZED THE FMLN'S TERRORIST ACTIONS.</p><p>[CRISTIANI] "LET US SAY THAT THE ARMED FORCES AND THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT ARE PREPARED TO MILITARILY COUNTER THE AGGRESSION FOR AS LONG AS THE FMLN WANTS TO. THE FMLN DECIDED TO LAUNCH AN OFFENSIVE BECAUSE IT THOUGHT THAT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE SUPPORTED IT [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE PEOPLE HAVE SPURNED IT ONCE AGAIN. THE ONLY THING THE FMLN HAS MANAGED TO ACHIEVE IS TO EARN THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S SCORN."</p><p>"WE WANT TO TALK ABOUT A CEASE-FIRE AND NEGOTIATE A CEASE-FIRE BUT WE BELIEVE THAT THE ENDING OF HOSTILITIES SHOULD BE THE FIRST GESTURE BECAUSE THAT IS THE ONLY WAY WE CAN TALK TO THE FMLN. IF THIS DOES NOT OCCUR, I DO NOT THINK THAT ONE SINGLE SALVADORAN WILL TRUST THE FMLN IN THE LEAST [WORDS INDISTINCT]. WE, MEANING THE ARMED FORCES AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC, DO NOT WANT TO [WORDS INDISTINCT]."</p><p>THE PRESIDENT SAID THAT THERE IS A POSSIBILITY THAT THE CURFEW WILL BE MODIFIED, PARTICULARLY IN PLACES WHERE ORDER HAS BEEN COMPLETELY RESTORED. HE ALSO EXPLAINED THAT HIS GOVERNMENT HAS NEVER SOUGHT A MILITARY SOLUTION TO THE ARMED CONFLICT BECAUSE THAT IS CLARIFIED IN THE CONSTITUTION.</p><p>CRISTIANI "WE HAVE NEVER SOUGHT A MILITARY SOLUTION. THE FMLN IS THE ONE WHICH HAS OPTED FOR A MILITARY SOLUTION. WE HAVE NOT [WORDS INDISTINCT] GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC WITH WEAPONS AND WE HAVE NOT SOUGHT THE ARMED FORCES TO DO IT. THE FMLN IS THE ONLY ONE TRYING TO SEIZE POWER WITH ITS WEAPONS. THE ARMED FORCES HAS ONLY FULFILLED ITS DUTY, WHICH IS TO COUNTER AN ARMED ACTION."</p><p>"FURTHERMORE, WE BELIEVE THAT THIS AGGRESSION IS [WORDS INDISTINCT] NICARAGUA AND CUBA, BECAUSE NICARAGUA AND CUBA [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE FMLN WOULD HAVE NO POSSIBILITY OF [WORDS INDISTINCT] PEACE IN EL SALVADOR."</p><p>THE PRESIDENT ASSERTED THAT HIS GOVERNMENT WILL CONTINUE WITH THE DIALOGUE PROCESS BUT IT MUST BE FULLY CONVINCED THAT THE REBEL GROUPS ARE WILLING TO PUT DOWN THEIR WEAPONS AND JOIN THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS IN A PEACEFUL AND VOLUNTARY WAY. HE EXPLAINED THAT THE GOVERNMENT'S ROLE IN CARACAS, VENEZUELA, WAS LIMITED TO NOTIFYING HIS COUNTERPART, CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ, ABOUT THE SALVADORAN SITUATION AND REASSERTING THE GOVERNMENT'S POSITION GIVEN THE FMLN DELEGATION'S ABSENCE -- WHICH CONFIRMED THEIR LACK OF WILLINGNESS TO ACHIEVE PEACE.</p></body></html>