<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0192"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0192"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0192</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0192 (ADS)</p><p>LIMA, 28 APR 89 (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [INTERVIEW WITH PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [TEXT] [BEGIN RECORDING] [REPORTER] MR PRESIDENT, CAN YOU GIVE US ACCURATE INFORMATION ON THIS CLASH?</p><p>[GARCIA] I CAME HERE [REGION OF LOS MOLINOS, 8 KM NORTHEAST OF THE CITY OF JAUJA, JUNIN DEPARTMENT] WITH THE DEFENSE MINISTER AND WITH THE PRESIDENT OF THE JOINT COMMAND TO OBSERVE THE SITE OF A CLASH THAT OCCURRED THIS MORNING, WHEN AN ARMY PATROL COMING FROM JAUJA AND HEADING FOR JULCAN INTERCEPTED TWO VEHICLES CARRYING A LARGE NUMBER OF HEAVILY ARMED SUBVERSIVES.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE FIRST REPORTS, BASED ON THE DOCUMENTS SEIZED FROM THE SUBVERSIVES, THEY WERE HEADING FOR CONCEPCION, WHICH THEY WERE PLANNING TO ATTACK. FORTUNATELY, THEY WERE INTERCEPTED BY THE ARMY AT THIS PLACE.</p><p>WE HAD 6 DEATHS, AMONG THEM A LIEUTENANT, WHILE MORE THAN 60 SUBVERSIVES DIED. A TOTAL OF 47 FAL RIFLES AND SUBMACHINE GUNS WERE RECOVERED. THEY WERE HEAVILY ARMED AND THEY CARRIED KNAPSACKS WITH BOMBS. THEY HAD VEHICLES AN COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.</p><p>WE CAME HERE TO SUPPORT THE ACTION BY THE ARMY, BECAUSE THE ARMY NEEDS OUR SUPPORT, AND TO LET THE ENTIRE COUNTRY BECOME AWARE OF THE SERIOUSNESS OF THE SITUATION AND OF THE MAGNITUDE AND INTENSITY OF THE STRUGGLE THAT THE ARMED FORCES ARE NOW WAGING IN DEFENSE OF DEMOCRACY AND OF THE NATION.</p><p>I BELIEVE THAT THIS DRAMATIC EVENT AND THE LOSS OF OUR SOLDIERS AND OFFICERS SHOULD MAKE THE ENTIRE COUNTRY AWARE OF THE ENORMOUS RESPONSIBILITY THAT EACH AND EVERY ONE OF US SHARE IN THE ANTISUBVERSIVE STRUGGLE.</p><p>ALL THE FORCES OF THE STATE AND ALL THE ARMS OF THE NATION HAVE BEEN PLACED UNDER THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE RESPECTIVE ORGANIZATIONS, OF THE JOINT ARMED FORCES COMMAND, TO FIGHT AND TO ERADICATE THIS TERRIBLE THREAT OF SUBVERSION. SUBVERSIVE VIOLENCE HAS CAUSED DEATH, MATERIAL LOSSES, UNCERTAINTY, FEAR, AND INSECURITY, AND A THREAT TO OUR DEMOCRACY.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR PRESIDENT, IS THERE INFORMATION ON THE GROUP TO WHICH THE SUBVERSIVES BELONG?</p><p>[GARCIA] ACCORDING TO THE FIRST REPORTS, THEY BELONG TO THE SELF- STYLED TUPAC AMARU REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT [MRTA].</p><p>[REPORTER] MR PRESIDENT, YOU HAVE TWO PASSPORTS IN YOUR HANDS. WHAT DO THEY SAY? WHERE WERE THEY ISSUED AND TO WHOM DID THEY BELONG?</p><p>[GARCIA] IDENTIFICATION PAPERS WERE FOUND ON ALMOST ALL SUBVERSIVES, ALTHOUGH MOST OF THEM ARE FORGED. THESE TWO BOLIVIAN [AS HEARD] PASSPORTS, HOWEVER, ARE AMONG THE PAPERS THAT SEEM TO BE LEGITIMATE. THESE PASSPORTS MARK THE ARRIVALS AN DEPARTURES OF PERSONS WHO, AS WE CAN SEE, HAVE MISUSED THE RIGHT TO ENTER PERU. IT SEEMS THAT THERE ARE OTHER FOREIGNERS AMONG THE DEAD SUBVERSIVES. ACCORDING TO AN INITIAL EVALUATION, MANY OF THOSE WHO ATTACKED THE TOWN OF JUANJUI 1 1/2 YEARS AGO MIGHT BE AMONG THE DEAD.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR PRESIDENT, WERE THE OWNERS OF THOSE PASSPORTS THE LEADERS OF THE SUBVERSIVE GROUP?</p><p>[GARCIA] NO, WE CANNOT CONFIRM THAT THEY WERE THE LEADERS, BUT THEY WERE THE PERSONS TO WHOM THE PASSPORTS WERE ISSUED.</p><p>[REPORTER] ARE THERE CHIEFS AMONG THE DEAD SUBVERSIVES?</p><p>[GARCIA] ACCORDING TO THE INFORMATION GATHERED BY THE OFFICERS, THERE MIGHT BE CHIEFS AMONG THE DEAD.</p><p>[REPORTER] HOW MANY, MR PRESIDENT?</p><p>[GARCIA] JUST A FEW, PERHAPS TWO OR THREE, BECAUSE OF THE ARM BANDS THEY WERE WEARING.</p><p>[REPORTER] THE GENERAL TOLD US THAT THIS IS ONE OF THE HARSHEST BLOWS THAT THE ARMY HAS DEALT TO SUBVERSIVES.</p><p>[GARCIA] IS ONE OF THE STRONGEST BLOWS, AND IT WILL CERTAINLY NOT BE THE LAST ONE. WE HAVE TOTAL CONFIDENCE IN THE ARMED FORCES JOINT COMMAND AND WE FULLY SUPPORT ITS ACTION.</p><p>IT IS VERY DEPLORABLE, DRAMATIC, AND TRAGIC THAT THIS DRAMATIC EVENT SHOULD CONVEY THE IMAGE OF PERU TO OUR OWN FELLOW COUNTRYMEN AND POSSIBLY TO FOREIGN COUNTRIES. DEMOCRACY, HOWEVER, SHOULD DEFEND ITSELF. IT IS BOTH NECESSARY AND IMPERATIVE THAT WE END THIS TERRIBLE THREAT THROUGH THE MILITARY POWER OF THE NATION AND THROUGH THE ACTION OF THE GOVERNMENT, WHICH WAS ELECTED BY THE PEOPLE.</p><p>THIS HAS BEEN A HARD BLOW, BUT IT SHOULD BE JUST ONE OF THE HARD BLOWS THAT THE POLICE AND THE ARMED FORCES DEAL UNTIL THIS THREAT IS TOTALLY ELIMINATED.</p><p>[REPORTER] THANK YOU, VERY MUCH. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>