<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0929"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0929"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0929</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0929 (SRI)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 4 DEC 89 (AFP) -- [EXCERPTS] SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI TONIGHT CONFIRMED THAT HE WILL ATTEND THE SPECIAL SUMMIT OF CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS IN COSTA RICA ON 10-11 DECEMBER. CRISTIANI SAID OVER RADIO AND TELEVISION THAT HE WILL ATTEND THE SUMMIT "IN DEFENSE OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE" AND TO TELL NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ORTEGA THAT "UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES IS HIS SENDING THE FMLN (FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT) PUPPETS TO KILL SALVADORANS JUSTIFIED."</p><p>CRISTIANI SAID TODAY THAT EL SALVADOR "HAS ALWAYS BEEN WILLING TO FIND A SOLUTION THROUGH PEACEFUL MEANS" BUT IN ALLUSION TO NICARAGUA, HE ADDED THAT "THOSE WHO SEEK TO SIGN COMMITMENTS WITH THE REST OF THE PRESIDENTS SHOULD ALSO FULFILL THEM."</p><p>MEANWHILE, HONDURAN PRESIDENT JOSE AZCONA SAID TODAY IN TEGUCIGALPA THAT HE WAS WILLING TO ATTEND THE SUMMIT. HOWEVER, COSTA RICAN FOREIGN MINISTER RODRIGO MADRIGAL SAID IN HIS COUNTRY THAT EL SALVADOR AND HONDURAS HAD NOT OFFICIALLY CONFIRMED THEIR ATTENDANCE.</p><p>ACCORDING TO CRISTIANI, HE WILL CONFIRM HIS ATTENDANCE ON 5 DECEMBER.</p><p>MADRIGAL PREDICTED THAT THE SUMMIT "WILL NOT BE EASY" DUE TO THE TOPICS THAT WILL BE DISCUSSED AND BECAUSE THE AGENDA WILL SURELY INCLUDE THE ALLEGED NICARAGUAN ASSISTANCE TO THE FMLN AND THE DEMOBILIZATION OF THE CONTRAS AS REQUESTED BY NICARAGUA.</p><p>HOWEVER, THE AGENDA IS BEING PROCESSED AND ALTHOUGH COSTA RICA OFFERED TO HOST THE MEETING, "IT IS NOT INTERESTED IN FORCING THE ISSUE," HE EMPHASIZED.</p><p>MADRIGAL ADDED THAT WHAT INTERESTS COSTA RICA IS TO SERVE AS A "BRIDGE" FOR SOLVING THE CONFLICT BETWEEN NICARAGUA AND EL SALVADOR, AND FINDING SOME FORMULA SO THAT THE SALVADORAN AND NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENTS WILL ESTABLISH A DIALOGUE WITH THE REBELS.</p><p>HE ADDED THAT IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THE FOREIGN MINISTERS OF THE FIVE COUNTRIES WILL MEET IN SAN JOSE ON THE EVE OF THE LONG-AWAITED MEETING TO PREPARE FOR IT.</p><p>THE COSTA RICAN FOREIGN MINISTER REPORTED THAT THEY ARE ALSO CONSIDERING THE POSSIBILITY OF INVITING FOREIGN MINISTERS FROM OTHER LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES, AS WELL AS REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UN OBSERVER GROUP IN CENTRAL AMERICA (ONUCA).</p></body></html>