<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1289"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1289"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MADRID (SPAIN)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1289</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1289 (BOEING)</p><p>MADRID (SPAIN), 17 MAY 90 (EFE) -- [EXCERPT] LIMA, 17 MAY (EFE) -- SOURCES CLOSE TO THE GOVERNMENT TODAY SAID THAT THE "TEMPORARY WITHDRAWAL" FROM THE STRUGGLE ANNOUNCED BY THE "SHINING PATH" PERUVIAN MAOIST GUERRILLA GROUP ON ITS 10TH ANNIVERSARY IS A "PSYCHOLOGICAL WAR OPERATION" INITIATED BY THE MILITARY.</p><p>CIVILIAN SOURCES TOLD EFE THAT THE COMMUNIQUE THAT WAS RELEASED IN AYACUCHO -- THE CRADLE OF THE "SHINING PATH" -- ANNOUNCING THE GROUP'S TEMPORARY WITHDRAWAL FROM THE ARMED STRUGGLE "IS FICTITIOUS AND WAS RELEASED BY THE ARMED FORCES TO CREATE AN ATMOSPHERE OF UNCERTAINTY IN THE RANKS OF THE SHINING PATH" AT A TIME WHEN TERRORIST ACTIONS WERE EXPECTED TO INCREASE TO MARK THE GROUP'S ANNIVERSARY.</p><p>THE SOURCES SAID THAT THE COMMUNIQUE IS AIMED AT CONFUSING THE SHINING PATH COMMANDOS, WHO ARE DIVIDED AND HAVE NO CLEAR COMMUNICATION AMONG THEMSELVES OR WITH THEIR COMMANDING LEVELS. THE SOURCES ADDED THAT THE COMMUNIQUE IS AIMED AT DELAYING OR ABORTING THE ARMED ACTIONS THAT MAY HAVE BEEN PLANNED FOR TODAY AND TOMORROW.</p><p>THE SECURITY FORCES HAVE BEEN ON "RED ALERT" IN AYACUCHO TODAY TO PREVENT THE SHINING PATH FROM CELEBRATING ITS 10TH ANNIVERSARY WITH PROPAGANDA ATTACKS RECALLING THE BEGINNING OF THE "PEOPLE'S WAR" ON 17 JUNE 1980, WHEN THE GROUP ATTACKED AN ELECTORAL COURT OFFICE IN AN ANDEAN TOWN.</p><p>THE COMMUNIQUE, WHICH WAS RELEASED IN SUBURBAN AREAS OF AYACUCHO, ANNOUNCED THAT THE PERUVIAN COMMUNIST PARTY (PCP) -- WHICH IS THE OFFICIAL NAME OF THE SHINING PATH -- HAS "TEMPORARILY" WITHDRAWN FROM THE ARMED STRUGGLE AND WILL REORGANIZE ITSELF TO RETURN WITH "NEW IMPETUS."</p><p>THE AUTHENTICITY OF THE COMMUNIQUE WAS ALSO CALLED INTO QUESTION BY AYACUCHO JOURNALISTIC AND UNIVERSITY SOURCES CONSULTED BY EFE. THEY NOTED THAT THIS IS NOT THE FIRST TIME THAT COMMUNIQUES HAVE BEEN ATTRIBUTED TO THE SHINING PATH.</p><p>"WE ARE TEMPORARILY WITHDRAWING FORM THE ARMED STRUGGLE, BUT WE WILL CONTINUE THE IDEOLOGICAL FIGHT AND EXAMINE AND EVALUATE THE BRILLIANT ACTIONS THAT WE HAVE CARRIED OUT DURING THE PAST DECADE TO RETURN ONCE AGAIN, WITH MORE IDEAS AND A DETERMINATION THAT WILL PERMIT A STRATEGIC BALANCE UNDER BETTER CIRCUMSTANCES," THE COMMUNIQUE STATES.</p><p>"IT IS TIME FOR US TO SAY THAT THE TIME FOR CRIME FOR THE SAKE OF CRIME IS PASSED AND THAT THE CULT OF PERSONALITY IS ALSO OVER," IT ADDS. CONTRARY TO STANDARD SHINING PATH PRACTICE, THE NOTE, WHICH IS SIGNED BY THE "PCP-RANK-AND-FILE," DOES NOT MENTION THE MOVEMENT'S TOP LEADER AND FOUNDER ABIMAEL GUZMAN, KNOWN BY HIS SUPPORTERS AS "PRESIDENT GONZALO." SPECIALISTS BELIEVE THAT THIS PHRASE IS AN ATTACK AGAINST THE MORE MILITARIST SECTOR OF THE SHINING PATH AND AGAINST GUZMAN, AND THAT IT SEEKS TO FOMENT DIVISION WITHIN THE SHINING PATH.</p><p>SOME SPECIALISTS IN THE ACTIVITIES OF THE GROUP HAVE SAID THAT THERE IS A CONFRONTATION BETWEEN THE MORE MODERATE SECTOR, KNOWN AS THE "BLACK" WING, AND THE "RED" ORTHODOX, MILITARIST WING. OTHER OBSERVERS HAVE SAID THAT THERE ARE ONLY "FISSURES" CONCERNING OPERATIONAL METHODS. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p></body></html>