<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0559"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0559"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TRUJILLO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0559</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0559 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>TRUJILLO, 9 OCT 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] TODAY IN THE CITY OF TRUJILLO THE FOREIGN MINISTERS OF ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, MEXICO, AND PERU BEGAN DISCUSSING THE POSSIBILITY OF OUSTING PANAMA FROM THE GROUP OF EIGHT AND EVENTUALLY ACCEPTING ECUADOR IN ITS PLACE. THE POSSIBILITY OF EXPELLING PANAMA FROM THE GROUP WAS DISCUSSED EVEN THOUGH ARGENTINE FOREIGN MINISTER DOMINGO CAVALLO SAID THE ISSUE WAS NOT ON THE AGENDA.</p><p>ASKED ABOUT THE POSSIBLE OUSTING OF PANAMA FROM THE GROUP OF EIGHT AND REPLACING IT WITH ECUADOR, ARGENTINE FOREIGN MINISTER DOMINGO CAVALLO TOLD EFE: "WE ARE GOING TO LISTEN TO THE PROPOSAL, BUT WE PREFER NOT TO COMMENT FOR THE TIME BEING. WE WILL SEE WITHIN THE CONTEXT OF THE MEETING WHAT THE BASIS FOR THAT PROPOSAL IS."</p><p>CAVALLO ADDED: "WE DO NOT HAVE PROPOSALS OR INITIATIVES ANY DIFFERENT FROM THE ISSUES TO BE DISCUSSED ON PANAMA."</p><p>MEXICAN FOREIGN MINISTER FERNANDO SOLANA TOLD EFE THAT THE PREPARATORY FOREIGN MINISTERS MEETING WILL DISCUSS THE PANAMANIAN ISSUE AND THAT MEXICO WILL DECIDE ITS STANCE "AT THE APPROPRIATE TIME."</p><p>BRAZILIAN FOREIGN MINISTER ROBERTO DE ABREU SAID IN THIS CITY YESTERDAY THAT BRAZIL HAS AN INDIVIDUAL POSITION "BUT WILL ACCEPT AND SUPPORT A JOINT AGREEMENT."</p><p>PERUVIAN FOREIGN MINISTER GUILLERMO LARCO COX ALSO SAID YESTERDAY THAT PERU WILL PROPOSE "THE FINAL SEPARATION OF PANAMA" FROM THE GROUP OF EIGHT.</p><p>LARCO ADDED THAT PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA WILL PROPOSE THE SEPARATION OF PANAMA FROM THE GROUP DURING THE SUMMIT MEETING THAT WILL BE HELD WITH THE PRESIDENTS OF ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, COLOMBIA, MEXICO, URUGUAY, AND VENEZUELA ON 11 AND 12 OCTOBER. THE MEETING WILL TAKE PLACE IN ICA, 850 KM SOUTH OF TRUJILLO.</p><p>TODAY LARCO COX OPENED THE GROUP OF EIGHT FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING IN TRUJILLO. THE FOREIGN MINISTERS OF COLOMBIA AND VENEZUELA WERE ABSENT BECAUSE THEY WILL GO DIRECTLY TO ICA WITH THEIR RESPECTIVE PRESIDENTS.</p><p>IN A BRIEF SPEECH, LARCO COX CALLED ON THE OTHER REPRESENTATIVES TO STRUGGLE FOR THE UNITY, INTEGRATION, AND INDEPENDENCE IN THE REGION.</p><p>COX ADDED: "WE MUST WORK FOR OVERALL DEVELOPMENT. WE PROPOSE AS AN ACT OF JUSTICE THE INTEGRATION OF THE CONTINENT WHICH IS NECESSARY FOR THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PEOPLE."</p><p>HE ADDED THAT THE INTEGRATION PROCESS CANNOT BE AN ISOLATED PROCESS AND THAT UNITY CAN ONLY BE EFFECTIVE IF THE COUNTRIES RESCUE THE HISTORIC VALUES WHICH CONSOLIDATED THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE AMERICAS.</p><p>THE MINISTERS ALSO DISCUSSED, IN ADDITION TO THE PANAMANIAN AND ECUADORAN CASE, THE DRUG TRAFFICKING PROBLEM, JOINT ACTION TO DEAL WITH THE REGION'S FOREIGN DEBT, ESTIMATED AT $420 BILLION, AND TERRORISM.</p><p>THE PROPOSALS MADE IN TRUJILLO WILL BE DISCUSSED BY THE SEVEN PRESIDENTS IN ICA.</p><p>THE FOREIGN MINISTERS MEETING IS BEING HELD UNDER POLICE AND MILITARY CONTROL TO PREVENT TERRORIST ATTACKS. ON 4 OCTOBER A CAR BOMB EXPLODED ABOUT 500 METERS FROM THE MEETING SITE. FORTUNATELY, THERE WAS ONLY PROPERTY DAMAGE.</p><p>SOME OF THE SECURITY MEASURES INCLUDED THE CHANGE OF THE FOREIGN MINISTERS' ARRIVAL TIMES AND SOME CHANGES IN THE OFFICIAL PROGRAM.</p><p>THERE IS STRICT POLICE CONTROL NEAR THE CESAR VALLEJO CIVIC CENTER WHERE THE MINISTERS ARE MEETING. VEHICLE AND PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC WAS PROHIBITED WITHIN ABOUT 200 METERS OF THE CENTER.</p><p>THE FIRST MEETING OF THE GROUP OF EIGHT WAS HELD IN ACAPULCO, MEXICO, IN 1987, AND THE SECOND MEETING WAS HELD IN PUNTA DEL ESTE, URUGUAY, IN 1988.</p></body></html>