<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0229"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0229"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-31"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0229</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0229 (ADS)</p><p>BOGOTA, 31 MAY 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [REPORT] [ALVARO AYALA] [TEXT] TERRORISM SEEMS NOT TO HAVE LET UP THROUGHOUT COLOMBIA. BOGOTA, CALI, AND MEDELLIN HAVE BEEN THE TARGETS OF DYNAMITE ATTACKS. LAST NIGHT, WHILE THE COUNTRY WAS STILL IN SHOCK OVER THE ATTACK AGAINST DAS [ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY] DIRECTOR GENERAL MIGUEL ALFREDO MAZA MARQUEZ, A SHOPPING MALL IN MEDELLIN WAS SHAKEN BY THE EXPLOSION OF AN AVERAGE - SIZED BOMB AT THE CICLOTECNICA STORE ON 33D AND 42D STREETS. ORLANDO GOMEZ, A STREET VENDOR WALKING THROUGH THE AREA, WAS KILLED. TWO MORE PEOPLE WERE SERIOUSLY WOUNDED. ONE OF THE VICTIMS HAS NOT YET BEEN IDENTIFIED. MEANWHILE, THE OTHER VICTIM, GIOVANNI MADRIGAL, IS RECOVERING IN A MEDELLIN HOSPITAL.</p><p>ACCORDING TO REPORTS BY MEDELLIN METROPOLITAN POLICE EXPERTS, THE BOMB WAS LEFT BY UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUALS AT THE ELITE BAR'S PARKING LOT. SEVERAL VEHICLES WERE DAMAGED BY THE EXPLOSION, WHICH RESULTED IN HEAVY FINANCIAL LOSSES. LAST WEEK, ANOTHER MEDELLIN SHOPPING MALL WAS ALSO ATTACKED BY TERRORISTS.</p></body></html>