<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0640"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0640"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0640</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0640 (GE)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 4 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [INTERVIEW WITH FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, FMLN, COMMANDER SALVADOR SANCHEZ, ALIAS COMMANDER LEONEL GONZALEZ, MEMBER OF THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND, BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [REPORTER] COMMANDER LEONEL GONZALEZ, ON FRIDAY NIGHT MR ALFREDO CRISTIANI ANNOUNCED SOME MEASURES WHICH THE GOVERNMENT WILL ADOPT IN CONNECTION WITH FENASTRAS [SALVADORAN WORKERS NATIONAL UNION FEDERATION] AND THE DIALOGUE. THE FMLN ANNOUNCED IT HAD SUSPENDED ITS TRIP TO CARACAS, BUT CRISTIANI SAID THAT THE GOVERNMENT COMMISSION WILL GO TO CARACAS REGARDLESS OF OUR DECISION. WHAT IS YOUR OPINION ON THE GOVERNMENT'S DECISION?</p><p>[GONZALEZ] IN MY OPINION, TWO POSITIONS ON THE DIALOGUE AND THE NEGOTIATIONS PROCESS WERE MADE EVIDENT IN SAN JOSE. THE GOVERNMENT OF ALFREDO CRISTIANI AND THE ARMED FORCES HIGH COMMAND VIEW THE DIALOGUE AS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR TALKING, BUYING TIME, AND BUILDING A GOOD IMAGE FOR THEMSELVES. ON THE OTHER HAND, THE FMLN IS WORKING FOR A REAL NEGOTIATIONS PROCESS. THE FMLN HAS OPENED A BROADER DEBATE, A DEBATE THAT INCLUDES DISCUSSIONS WITH AND THE PARTICIPATION OF POLITICAL PARTIES, THE SOCIAL FORCES, THE CHURCH, ALL THE SECTORS. WE HAVE INITIATED A NATIONAL DIALOGUE. AS WE SEE IT, THE GOAL IS PART OF A WHOLE, IT IS NOT EVERYTHING. THE ENTIRE PROCESS OF ALLOWING THE PARTICIPATION OF THE SOCIAL FORCES IS IMPORTANT ALSO.</p><p>IN RECENT DAYS WE HAVE SEEN ACTIONS UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF EL SALVADOR. THERE WAS THE ATTACK ON WORKERS IN WHICH 10 WORKERS DIED AND 31 WERE INJURED. THE FMLN CANNOT IGNORE THIS FACT. THIS IS PART OF THE PROCESS. WE HAVE SAID THAT WE ARE GOING TO ESTABLISH CONTACT WITH OBSERVERS AND MEDIATORS TO ANALYZE THE SITUATION, AND WE WILL DISCUSS THIS PROCESS WITH THE POLITICAL PARTIES AND THE SOCIAL FORCES. WHAT WE WANT IS TO CONSOLIDATE THE NEGOTIATIONS PROCESS. WE ARE NOT TRYING TO ENHANCE OUR IMAGE; OUR PEOPLE KNOW WHO IS TELLING THE TRUTH.</p><p>IN SAN JOSE WE MADE A SOLUTION PROPOSAL THAT ENVISAGES DEMOCRACY, HUMAN RIGHTS, AND A PROCESS TO FIND A WAY OUT OF THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT. ON MONDAY AND WEDNESDAY OF NEXT WEEK WE ARE GOING TO MEET IN WASHINGTON WITH OAS AND UN REPRESENTATIVES. ALSO ON MONDAY IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, WE COULD BE IN CONTACT WITH THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT TO ANALYZE THE SITUATION.</p><p>WE WILL ANALYZE DEVELOPMENTS TO DETERMINE THE POSITION OF THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT. IF ACTIONS BY THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT CLOSE THE POSSIBILITIES OF CARACAS, THEN WE WILL ADOPT MEASURES. WHAT WE HAVE DONE IS TO ANNOUNCE A SUSPENSION TO CREATE CONDITIONS FOR MAKING PROGRESS TOWARD REAL NEGOTIATIONS, AS THE SAN JOSE AGREEMENTS ESTABLISH.</p><p>[REPORTER] THEN WHY IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO CARACAS, COMMANDER?</p><p>[GONZALEZ] I BELIEVE THAT THE ANNOUNCEMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT DELEGATION GOING TO CARACAS IS AIMED AT ENHANCING THE GOVERNMENT'S IMAGE, AT CREATING A SMOKE SCREEN AROUND THE MASSACRE COMMITTED AGAINST THE POPULAR MOVEMENT.</p><p>[REPORTER] NOW THAT YOU MENTION THE FENASTRAS MASSACRE, WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE CREATION OF A COMMISSION TO INVESTIGATE THIS CASE THAT CRISTIANI HAS ANNOUNCED?</p><p>[GONZALEZ] ONE OF THE POINTS OF OUR SAN JOSE PROPOSAL CALLS FOR CHANGING THE SALVADORAN LEGAL SYSTEM BECAUSE IT IS VITIATED AND IS IN THE HANDS OF ONE SINGLE PARTY. SO, IN THIS FRAMEWORK, CONDUCTING AN INVESTIGATION IS LIKE PUTTING THE CASE INSIDE A FORGOTTEN DRAWER. THIS IS WHAT HAPPENED TO THE MONSIGNOR ROMERO CASE, THE CASE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY DEMOCRATIC FRONT LEADERS, AND THE CASES OF THOUSANDS OF WORKERS WHO HAVE BEEN MURDERED AND WHOSE CASES HAVE BEEN FORGOTTEN. THE PURPOSE OF THIS COMMISSION IS TO CREATE A SMOKE SCREEN AROUND THE GRAVE HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS BEING COMMITTED BY THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT. WE BELIEVE THAT THE PERSONS WHO HAVE BEEN INVITED TO FORM PART OF THIS COMMISSION SHOULD NOT LEND THEMSELVES TO PLAYING A PART IN THE EFFORT TO HIDE WHAT IS REALLY BEHIND ALL THIS. WHAT THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT WANTS IS TO DIVERT AWAY FROM EMILIO PONCE ALL THE ACCUSATIONS AND CHARGES, AND PONCE IS THE ONE WHO IS DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN THIS KIND OF ATTACK. THE STATE POLICY OF THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT IS REPRESSION, AND THIS STATE POLICY IS BEING IMPLEMENTED BY THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT, CRISTIANI, AND THE HIGH COMMAND, AND THEY ARE DOING IT THROUGH THE REPRESSIVE BODIES, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER THEY FUNCTION AS CIVILIANS, AS DEATH SQUADS, OR IN UNIFORM. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>