<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0303"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0303"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAMBURG (WEST GERMANY)"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0303</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0303 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>HAMBURG (WEST GERMANY), 20 JUL 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] TELEVISION STATION AND AT LEAST ONE RADIO STATION, SPOKESMEN OF TELEVISION CHANNEL 7 -- WHICH WAS THE TELEVISION STATION AFFECTED BY THE BLAST -- TOLD DPA.</p><p>ACCORDING TO INITIAL REPORTS, THE BOMB WAS SET OFF ON ALUX MOUNTAIN, APPROXIMATELY 20 KM WEST OF THE GUATEMALAN CAPITAL. MOST RADIO AND TELEVISION STATIONS HAVE TRANSMISSION TOWERS ON THAT MOUNTAIN BECAUSE IT TOWERS OVER A VAST AREA OF GUATEMALA.</p><p>IT HAS BEEN LEARNED THAT A MAN, WHO IS BELIEVED TO HAVE BEEN THE WATCHMAN AT CHANNEL 7'S TOWER, WAS KILLED BY THE BOMB. THE SPOKESMEN [FOR CHANNEL 7] SAID THAT RESCUE UNITS SENT TO THE SITE HAVE YET TO RETURN TO THE CAPITAL.</p><p>THE EXPLOSION WAS FELT IN SEVERAL NEARBY COMMUNITIES AND IN A SECTOR OF GUATEMALA CITY. CHANNEL 7 SUDDENLY WENT OFF THE AIR JUST AS GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO AREVALO WAS ABOUT TO DELIVER A SPEECH. NEVERTHELESS, THE SPEECH WAS BROADCAST BY THE OTHER FOUR TELEVISION CHANNELS THAT OPERATE IN GUATEMALA.</p><p>THIS TERRORIST ACTION COMES IN THE WAKE OF A SERIES OF INCIDENTS THAT HAVE OCCURRED IN THE PAST FEW DAYS AS A RESULT OF STRIKES BY TEACHERS, POST OFFICE WORKERS, FINANCE MINISTRY EMPLOYEES, AND OTHER SECTORS DEMANDING WAGE INCREASES.</p><p>A BOMB WAS FOUND BEFORE IT EXPLODED IN A BANK IN THE AFTERNOON OF 19 JULY, AND SEVERAL ANONYMOUS CALLERS WARNED ABOUT OTHER TERRORIST BOMBS LAST NIGHT; HOWEVER, THESE TURNED OUT TO BE FALSE ALARMS.</p></body></html>