<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0340"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0340"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0340</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0340 (BBN)</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 10 AUG 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] THREE EXPLOSIONS ROCKED GUATEMALA CITY TODAY, LEAVING AT LEAST ONE DEAD, FIVE WOUNDED, AND VEHICLES AND STORES DAMAGED.</p><p>THE MOST SERIOUS INCIDENT WAS CAUSED BY UNIDENTIFIED PERSONS WHO THREW A GRENADE AT A PRIVATELY OWNED PASSENGER BUS ON KILOMETER 6 OF THE ROAD LINKING GUATEMALA CITY WITH PUERTO BARRIOS, ON THE ATLANTIC COAST. ONE PERSON WAS KILLED AND AT LEAST FIVE WERE WOUNDED IN THE ATTACK. THE FATALITY WAS AN UNIDENTIFIED WOMAN.</p><p>ANOTHER EXPLOSION TOOK PLACE SIMULTANEOUSLY IN ZONE 5 OF GUATEMALA CITY, IN FRONT OF THE CHURCH OF THE HOLY PRIEST OF ARS, WHOSE PARISH PRIEST, JOSE MARIA RUIZ (FATHER CHEMITA), WAS PREPARING TO SAY MASS.</p><p>THREE VEHICLES WERE DAMAGED BY THIS EXPLOSION. THIS WEEK FATHER CHEMITA, FORMER CANDIDATE FOR MAYOR OF GUATEMALA CITY, ACCUSED ALFONSO CABRERA, FORMER FOREIGN MINISTER AND CURRENT SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE RULING CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY [PDC], OF "HAVING ORDERED" THE KILLING OF PDC LEADER DANILO BARILLAS.</p><p>A THIRD EXPLOSION OCCURRED ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF A BUILDING IN GUATEMALA CITY'S ZONE 9. SEVERAL STORES WERE DAMAGED BY THE BLAST.</p></body></html>