<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1279"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1279"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1279</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1279 (BOEING)</p><p>BOGOTA, 10 MAY 90 (DPA) -- [TEXT] THE COLOMBIAN SUPREME COURT TODAY DECLARED UNCONSTITUTIONAL THE REGISTRATION OF FIVE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES FOR THE UPCOMING 27 MAY ELECTIONS.</p><p>THE MEASURE ESPECIALLY AFFECTS ANTONIO NAVARRO WOLFF, CANDIDATE OF THE FORMER 19 APRIL (M-19) GUERRILLA MOVEMENT, WHO REPLACED CARLOS PIZARRO LEON-GOMEZ, WHO WAS ASSASSINATED LAST MONTH WHILE HE WAS ABOARD A FLIGHT, AS M-19 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE.</p><p>THE SUPREME COURT, WHICH HAS PRONOUNCED ITSELF ON THE DECREES AND LAWS PROMULGATED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AND EXECUTIVE BRANCHES, DECLARED UNCONSTITUTIONAL A DECREE ISSUED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS WHICH ELIMINATED THE QUALIFICATIONS FOR PERSONS TO REGISTER AS PRESIDENTIAL CANDDIDATES. THE DECREE WAS ISSUED UNDER THE STATE OF SIEGE THAT HAS EXISTED FOR THE PAST SIX YEARS.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT DECREE WAS ISSUED TO FAVOR PIZARRO LEON-GOMEZ, WHO ENTERED THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE AFTER A PEACE PROCESS WHEREBY THE M-19 DEMOBILIZED AND ABANDONED THE ARMED STRUGGLE.</p><p>ALSO AFFECTED ARE CANDIDATES GUILLERMO ALEMAN, POPULAR SINGER AND CUMBIA COMPOSER MARIO GARENA, JAIRO RODRIGUEZ LEON, AND HENRY FARFAN SILVA, WHO HAD ALREADY RESIGNED, ALTHOUGH NONE OF THEM HAD ANY CHANCE OF WINNING.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE SUPREME COURT, THE STATE OF SIEGE MUST ONLY BE CONSIDERED WHEN ISSUING DECREES DEALING WITH THE RESTORING OF PUBLIC ORDER, WHICH DOES NOT CONTEMPLATE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS.</p><p>THE COLOMBIAN LAWS DEMAND THAT A PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE MUST BE OR HAS BEEN A PARLIAMENTARIAN, UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR, AMBASSADOR, OR ATTORNEY GENERAL, AND HAS BEEN A PROFESSIONAL FOR AT LEAST FIVE YEARS.</p><p>NONETHELESS, THE SUPREME COURT'S DECISION IS NOT RETROACTIVE AND THE CANDIDACIES WILL BE WITHDRAWN ONLY IF THEY ARE OFFICIALLY CHALLENGED.</p></body></html>