<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0227"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0227"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-31"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0227</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0227 (ADS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 31 MAY 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [TEXT] ON THIS 1ST DAY OF THE TRANSPORTATION STOPPAGE CALLED BY THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN], EVERYTHING IS NORMAL IN SAN VICENTE DEPARTMENT. TRAFFIC IS 95 PERCENT NORMAL IN THE DEPARTMENTAL CAPITAL AND IN OTHER TOWNS, ALTHOUGH BUS SERVICE HAS LESSENED VISIBLY.</p><p>THE ARMY AND SECURITY CORPS HAVE ESTABLISHED AROUND-THE-CLOCK VIGILANCE ON ALL THE PRIMARY AND SECONDARY HIGHWAYS TO COUNTERACT ANY ACTION AGAINST THE CIVILIAN POPULATION AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.</p><p>MEANWHILE, BUS DEPOTS ARE DESERTED AND MANY PEOPLE ARE AWAITING SOME MEANS OF TRANSPORTATION TO GO TO WORK, ALTHOUGH TOMORROW, 1 JUNE, ALL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES WILL HAVE THE DAY OFF ON THE OCCASION OF THE PRESIDENTIAL INAUGURATION.</p><p>AT DAWN TODAY, STRONG EXPLOSIONS WERE HEARD IN VARIOUS PARTS OF THE DEPARTMENTAL CAPITAL, AND, AS OF 0400, INTENSE SHOOTING WAS HEARD IN THE SOUTHERN PART OF THE DEPARTMENT. AIR FORCE PLANES HAVE OVERFLOWN THE AREA IN AN EFFORT TO DETERMINE FMLN REBEL POSITIONS. AT 0500, SHOOTING COULD STILL BE HEARD.</p><p>IT HAS BEEN REPORTED THAT 5TH BRIGADE TROOPS CLASHED WITH FMLN COLUMNS NEAR [WORD INDISTINCT] IN JIBOA, AND THAT HELICOPTER GUNSHIPS AND AIRPLANES LENT AIR SUPPORT TO THE GROUND FORCES. REGARDING THE EXPLOSIONS, OUR SOURCE DID NOT DISCLOSE WHERE THEY TOOK PLACE. IT IS BELIEVED THAT POWER POSTS WERE SABOTAGED BECAUSE THERE WERE BRIEF BLACKOUTS AT APPROXIMATELY 0330 TODAY. SAN VICENTE NOW HAS ELECTRICITY AND POTABLE WATER.</p><p>ANOTHER REPORT INDICATES THAT EARLY THIS MORNING, FLARES WERE USED TO DETERMINE REBEL POSITIONS IN THE AFOREMENTIONED AREAS. JIBOA SUGAR MILL EMPLOYEES SAID THAT THE FMLN HARASSED ARTILLERY COMMAND POSITIONS NEAR THE SUGAR MILL.</p><p>REPORTS INDICATE THAT AT 0320, HARASSMENT BEGAN IN THE WESTERN, EASTERN, AND NORTHERN PARTS OF THE DEPARTMENT, AND THAT THE REBELS HAD SUFFERED CASUALTIES DURING CLASHES THIS MORNING NEAR THE JIBOA SUGAR MILL. THE REPORTS POINT OUT THAT NO VICTIMS OR DAMAGE HAVE BEEN REPORTED AT THE MILL.</p></body></html>