<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0591"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0591"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0591</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0591 (MCDONNELL DOUGLAS)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 20 OCT 89 (RADIO CADENA SONORA) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH GENERAL RAFAEL HUMBERTO LARIOS, SALVADORAN DEFENSE AND PUBLIC SECURITY MINISTER, BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [TEXT] [LARIOS] THIS HAS REALLY BEEN AN AGREEMENT THAT REFLECTS THE GOVERNMENT'S INTERESTS, AS WELL AS THE INTERESTS OF THE TERRORIST FRONT. IN THIS RESPECT, WE AGREE WITH THE TEXT OF THE SAN JOSE ACCORD.</p><p>[REPORTER] AT A NEWS CONFERENCE HELD YESTERDAY AT THE UND, THE NATIONALIST DEMOCRATIC UNION, IT WAS SAID THAT THE PARTICIPATION OF TWO U.S. ADVISERS AND ONE U.S. MILITARY ADVISER PREVENTED GREATER PROGRESS IN THE DIALOGUE. HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT THAT?</p><p>[LARIOS] WE MUST NEVER FORGET THAT TERRORISTS TRY TO CONFUSE AND TRY TO FOSTER AN ATTITUDE AND ACTIONS IN THE PEOPLE SOLELY TO JUSTIFY THEMSELVES. AT NO TIME WAS THE MILITARY DELEGATION, WHICH PARTICIPATED AS ADVISERS IN THE DIALOGUE, ABLE TO INFLUENCE THE DECISIONS OF THE DIALOGUE COMMISSION. THEIR ROLE AS ADVISERS ENABLED THEM TO GIVE ADVICE TO THE DIALOGUE COMMISSION, BUT IT IS ABSURD TO THINK THAT THE PRESENCE OF OUR TWO MILITARY ADVISERS AND OTHER ADVISERS PREVENTED REAL AND COMPLEX POSITIONS FROM BEING TAKEN AT THAT MEETING.</p><p>[REPORTER] THERE IS NO U.S. ADVISER...</p><p>[LARIOS, INTERRUPTING] MOREOVER, WE CANNOT.... [CHANGES THOUGHT] NO U.S. ADVISER ACCOMPANIED OUR DELEGATION. IF THERE WAS ONE, HE WENT STRICTLY ON HIS OWN. YOUR QUESTION, THEREFORE, IS IMPORTANT, BECAUSE IT ALLOWS US TO TELL YOU THAT THE SALVADORAN MILITARY DELEGATION NEVER HAMPERED THE WORK OF THE GOVERNMENT DELEGATION DURING THE TALKS.</p><p>[REPORTER] THE NONGOVERNMENT HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION PRESENTED THE RELATIVES OF TORTURED AND CAPTURED PERSONS. IT ACCUSED 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE COMMANDER FRANCISCO ELENA FUENTES AND OTHER OFFICERS OF HAVING TIES TO THE DEATH SQUADS.</p><p>[LARIOS] I HAVE BEEN DEALING WITH THESE KINDS OF REPORTS OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS. FRIENDS -- AND HERE I AM APPEALING TO MY FRIENDS -- LET US NOT ALLOW THE TERRORISTS' DESPERATE ACTIONS TO CONFUSE AND CONVEY A FALSE MESSAGE TO THE PEOPLE. THE FACT IS THAT THIS IS PART OF THE STRATEGY OF DECEIT, LIES, AND DISRESPECT FOR THE PEOPLE AND THE COUNTRY'S DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS IMPLEMENTED BY THE TERRORISTS.</p><p>[REPORTER] [WORDS INDISTINCT]</p><p>[LARIOS] LET ME REPEAT THAT THIS IS PART OF THE ABOVE-MENTIONED STRATEGY. WE MUST NOT BE DECEIVED. WE KNOW FULL WELL WHO THE PERSONS ARE WHO ARE TRYING TO SOW MISTRUST AND CONFUSION AMONG CIVILIANS. WE ARE A RESPONSIBLE, SERIOUS, AND FORMAL INSTITUTION. IT IS UP TO US TO INVESTIGATE ALL THESE VIOLENT INCIDENTS AND DEATHS. WE WILL DO OUR DUTY BY CONDUCTING AN INVESTIGATION. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>