<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1155"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1155"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1155</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1155 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>SANTIAGO, 6 MAR 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] CHILEAN PRESIDENT-ELECT PATRICIO AYLWIN TODAY CONDITIONED THE REESTABLISHMENT OF DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH CUBA TO THAT COUNTRY'S SUSPENSION OF ITS MILITARY, POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC SUPPORT TO CHILE'S MANUEL RODRIGUEZ PATRIOTIC FRONT (FPMR) TERRORIST GROUP. IN REMARKS TO EFE, AYLWIN EXPRESSED HIS SATISFACTION OVER THE PERUVIAN PRESIDENT'S DECISION TO ATTEND THE CHILEAN PRESIDENTIAL INAUGURATION ON 11 MARCH. HE ALSO NOTED THAT LA PAZ MUST FIRST RESTORE DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH CHILE TO HOLD TALKS ON BOLIVIA'S DESIRE FOR AN OUTLET TO THE SEA.</p><p>AYLWIN STATED THAT CUBA'S SUSPENSION OF ITS SUPPORT TO THE FPMR IS "A SINE QUA NON CONDITION" FOR RESUMING RELATIONS, WHICH WERE SEVERED IN 1973 IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE MILITARY COUP IN CHILE. "WE WANT TO MAINTAIN RELATIONS WITH EVERY COUNTRY," THE CHILEAN PRESIDENT-ELECT TOLD EFE. HE ADDED: "IT WOULD BE VERY GOOD FOR LATIN AMERICA IF CUBA COULD EFFECTIVELY REJOIN US AT THIS TIME (...) IN WHICH, FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MANY YEARS, PERHAPS IN DECADES, THERE WILL BE DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENTS THROUGHOUT THE CONTINENT."</p><p>AYLWIN ADDED: "WE HAVE THE RIGHT TO ASK CUBA TO MAKE IT QUITE CLEAR THAT IT WILL REFRAIN FROM ANY ACT OF INTERFERENCE AND FROM SUPPLYING ANY AID TO CHILEAN TERRORIST GROUPS."</p><p>THE FPMR, WHICH EMERGED IN DECEMBER 1983, IS MADE UP OF MILITANTS FROM COMMUNIST YOUTH GROUPS AND OTHER EXTREME LEFT ORGANIZATIONS AND YOUNG EXILES WHO HAVE RETURNED TO THE COUNTRY. THE FPMR MADE HEADLINES IN AUGUST 1986 WITH THE DISCOVERY OF AN ARSENAL THAT HAD BEEN CLANDESTINELY SHIPPED INTO NORTHERN CHILE. THE FPMR WAS ALSO IN THE NEWS WITH THE UNSUCCESSFUL 7 SEPTEMBER 1986 ATTACK ON CHILE'S CHIEF EXECUTIVE, GENERAL AUGUSTO PINOCHET, WHICH CLAIMED THE LIVES OF FIVE OF PINOCHET'S BODYGUARDS.</p><p>AYLWIN ALSO STATED THAT THE REESTABLISHMENT OF DIPLOMATIC TIES WITH BOLIVIA "IS BLOCKED BY THE BOLIVIAN DECISION TO BREAK RELATIONS WITH OUR COUNTRY." COMMENTING ON BOLIVIA'S ASPIRATION FOR AN OUTLET TO THE SEA, AYLWIN SAID: "WE CANNOT ACCEPT CONDITIONS FOR THE REESTABLISHMENT OF RELATIONS. IF WE HAVE RELATIONS, WE CAN TALK ABOUT ANYTHING AND FIND SOLUTIONS TO ALL OF OUR PROBLEMS." AYLWIN CONTINUED: "IF WE DO NOT MAINTAIN RELATIONS, IT IS VERY DIFFICULT TO HOLD A DIALOGUE."</p><p>AYLWIN ALSO COMMENTED ON PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA'S DECISION TO ATTEND THE CHILEAN PRESIDENTIAL INAUGURATION. THIS WILL BE THE FIRST TIME IN MORE THAN 100 YEARS (SINCE THE 1879 WAR OF THE PACIFIC IN WHICH CHILE FOUGHT AGAINST PERU AND BOLIVIA) THAT A PERUVIAN PRESIDENT WILL VISIT CHILE, A GESTURE WITH "HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE" FOR AYLWIN.</p><p>THE LEGACY OF THE CHILEAN-PERUVIAN WAR HAS NOT YET DISAPPEARED DESPITE THE FACT THAT THE TWO COUNTRIES SHARE COMMON INTERESTS AND HAVE MAINTAINED FRIENDLY RELATIONS IN RECENT YEARS. AYLWIN DESCRIBED THE PERUVIAN PRESIDENT'S PLAN TO ATTEND HIS INAUGURATION "AS A GESTURE WHICH, IN ADDITION TO GREATLY HONORING ME, I MUST SEE AS VERY PROMISING FOR RELATIONS BETWEEN OUR TWO COUNTRIES."</p><p>[PASSAGE INDISTINCT] COUNTRY IS WILLING TO PARTICIPATE "IN EVERY STAGE." COMMENTING SPECIFICALLY ON THE GROUP OF EIGHT, AYLWIN NOTED THAT THIS GROUP MAY BECOME A LARGER LATIN AMERICAN ORGANIZATION. IN AYLWIN'S OPINION, THE GROUP OF EIGHT -- WHICH IS MADE UP OF ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, COLOMBIA, MEXICO, PERU, URUGUAY, VENEZUELA, AND PANAMA (WHICH IS CURRENTLY EXCLUDED BECAUSE OF ITS DOMESTIC POLITICAL SITUATION) -- EMERGED PRIMARILY TO SUPPORT DEMOCRATIC MOVEMENTS IN SOME LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES.</p><p>NOW THAT DEMOCRACY HAS SPREAD TO VIRTUALLY ALL LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES, THE GROUP OF EIGHT COULD BECOME "THE SEED FOR A BROADER ORGANIZATION, BECAUSE THE REASONS THAT PREVENTED OTHER COUNTRIES FROM JOINING HAVE GRADUALLY DISAPPEARED."</p></body></html>