<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1017"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1017"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1017</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1017 (TRW)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 20 DEC 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] MILITARY AND CIVILIAN SOURCES HAVE CONFIRMED THAT HEAVY FIGHTING BETWEEN REBELS AND SOLDIERS BROKE OUT THIS EVENING IN CIUDAD MERLIOT, AN AREA WEST OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>THE FIGHTING BEGAN AT 1830 (0030 GMT) WHEN FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] COLUMNS ENTERED CIUDAD MERLIOT, A MIDDLE CLASS NEIGHBORHOOD LOCATED APPROXIMATELY 12 KM SOUTHWEST OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>ACCORDING TO POLICE SOURCES, THE FIGHTING WAS REPORTED IN THE AREAS OF JARDINES DE LA HACIENDA AND JARDINES DEL VOLCAN, WHERE THE GOVERNMENT TROOPS ARE USING AIR SUPPORT. THE HELICOPTERS FIRED ROCKETS AGAINST SUPPOSED REBEL POSITIONS.</p><p>THE SHOOTING COULD BE HEARD IN DOWNTOWN SAN SALVADOR. MEANWHILE, RESIDENTS OF THE AFFECTED AREAS TOLD LOCAL RADIO STATIONS THAT THERE WAS HEAVY SHOOTING.</p><p>THE ARMED ACTIONS ARE TAKING PLACE WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF AN OFFENSIVE LAUNCHED BY THE FMLN IN MID- NOVEMBER. ACCORDING TO ARMY SOURCES, THE OFFENSIVE HAS RESULTED IN 5,000 CASUALTIES, CIVILIAN CASUALTIES NOT INCLUDED.</p></body></html>