<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0174"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0174"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0174</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0174 (BELLCORE)</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 16 APR 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [EXCERPT] ONE MAN WAS KILLED AND ANOTHER SERIOUSLY INJURED THIS EVENING WHEN A POWERFUL EXPLOSIVE THEY WERE ATTEMPTING TO HURL FROM A PASSING MOTORCYCLE AT A U.S. EMBASSY WAREHOUSE IN TEGUCIGALPA EXPLODED BEFORE THEY COULD THROW IT.</p><p>THE DEAD MAN HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED AS 39-YEAR-OLD MIGUEL RODOLFO AGUILAR FLORES OF TEGUCIGALPA. HIS BODY WAS BLOWN TO BITS BY THE EXPLOSION.</p><p>THE WOUNDED MAN HAS NOT BEEN IDENTIFIED. HE WAS ADMITTED IN A SEMICONSCIOUS STATE TO THE BURNS UNIT OF THE ESCUELA HOSPITAL.</p><p>ACCORDING TO POLICE, THE BOMB WAS CHINESE-MADE AND MIGHT HAVE BEEN DETONATED BY HEAT FROM THE MOTORCYCLE OR FROM FRICTION CREATED AS A RESULT OF BEING PLACE BETWEEN THE TWO MEN ON THE MOTORCYCLE.</p><p>ANOTHER THEORY IS THAT THE TWO MEN DROPPED THE BOMB WHEN THEY TRIED TO THROW IT AT THE WAREHOUSE, WHICH IS LOCATED 1 KM NORTHWEST OF THE U.S. EMBASSY. POLICE BELIEVE THAT THE BOMB WAS GOING TO BE PLACED IN THE U.S. EMBASSY WAREHOUSE BY MEMBERS OF THE HONDURAN LEFT TO COMMEMMORATE WHAT PEOPLE HERE CALL "BLACK APRIL" FOR THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>ON 7 APRIL 1988, A MOB SET FIRE TO THE U.S. CONSULATE IN TEGUCIGALPA AND TO 30 DIPLOMATIC VEHICLES.</p></body></html>