<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0235"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0235"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0235</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0235 (ADS)</p><p>LIMA, 4 JUN 89 (EFE) -- [EXCERPTS] IT WAS REPORTED HERE TODAY THAT OVER 5,000 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN ARRESTED IN SEVERAL SECTORS OF LIMA BY POLICE AND MILITARY PATROLS FOLLOWING THE TERRORIST ATTACK ON 3 JUNE IN WHICH 7 MEMBERS OF THE SECURITY FORCES WERE KILLED.</p><p>NEWS MEDIA REPORTED TODAY THAT DURING COMBINED OPERATIONS IN DOWNTOWN LIMA AND ITS OUTSKIRTS, ABOUT 300 VEHICLES WERE DETAINED ON THE ROADS LINKING LIMA WITH THE INTERIOR OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE POLICE AND MILITARY DETAINED ABOUT 5,300 PEOPLE SUSPECTED OF HAVING PARTICIPATED IN THE BOMBING OF THE BUS THAT CARRIED 24 SOLDIERS OF THE PRESIDENTIAL ESCORT REGIMENT. THE ATTACK ON THE PRESIDENTIAL ESCORT REGIMENT, WHICH IS KNOWN AS "HUSARES DE JUNIN," TOOK PLACE SOME 10 BLOCKS FROM THE GOVERNMENT PALACE.</p><p>NO GUERRILLA GROUP HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACK. PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA SAID, HOWEVER, THAT ACCORDING TO SOME POLICEMEN, THE TUPAC AMARU REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT [MRTA] COULD BE INVOLVED IN THE ATTACK, ALTHOUGH SHINING PATH INVOLVEMENT IS NOT RULED OUT.</p><p>DURING A NEWS CONFERENCE, GARCIA SAID THAT THE TERRORISTS COULD HAVE PERPETRATED THIS ATTACK IN RETALIATION FOR THE DEATH OF 60 MRTA GUERRILLAS IN A CLASH WITH ARMY FORCES IN JAUJA, IN THE PERUVIAN CENTRAL MOUNTAIN RANGE, IN APRIL.</p><p>THE MURDER OF THE 6 SOLDIERS AND 1 POLICEMAN RAISED TO 36 THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE KILLED BY TERRORISTS DURING THE FIRST 3 DAYS OF JUNE. THAT IS AN AVERAGE OF 12 DEATHS EACH DAY.</p><p>DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL JULIO VELASQUEZ GIACARINI TODAY TOLD THE PRESS THAT HE GREATLY LAMENTED THIS INCIDENT AND THAT PRIME MINISTER LUIS ALBERTO SANCHEZ, IN HIS SPEECH AT CONGRESS ON 6 JUNE, WILL RELEASE THE GUIDELINES OF THE ANTISUBVERSIVE POLICY FORMULATED BY THE GOVERNMENT IN RESPONSE TO INCREASING TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.</p></body></html>