<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0008"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0008"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0008</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0008 (NOSC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 9 JAN 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] RICARDO ALFONSO CASTELLAR, MAYOR OF ACHI, IN THE NORTHERN DEPARTMENT OF BOLIVAR, WHO WAS KIDNAPPED ON 5 JANUARY, APPARENTLY BY ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION (ELN) GUERRILLAS, WAS FOUND DEAD TODAY, ACCORDING TO AUTHORITIES.</p><p>CASTELLAR WAS KIDNAPPED ON 5 JANUARY ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF ACHI, ABOUT 850 KM NORTH OF BOGOTA, BY A GROUP OF ARMED MEN, WHO FORCED HIM TO ACCOMPANY THEM TO AN UNDISCLOSED LOCATION.</p><p>POLICE SOURCES IN CARTAGENA REPORTED THAT CASTELLAR'S BODY SHOWED SIGNS OF TORTURE AND SEVERAL BULLET WOUNDS.</p><p>CASTELLAR WAS KIDNAPPED BY ELN GUERRILLAS WHILE HE WAS TRAVELING IN A BOAT DOWN THE CAUCA RIVER TO THE TENCHE AREA, A REGION WITHIN HIS JURISDICTION.</p><p>IN CARTAGENA IT WAS REPORTED THAT CASTELLAR FACED A "REVOLUTIONARY TRIAL" BY THE ELN AND THAT HE WAS FOUND GUILTY AND EXECUTED.</p><p>CASTELLAR IS THE SECOND MAYOR THAT HAS BEEN MURDERED IN COLOMBIA IN THE LAST 3 DAYS.</p><p>ON 5 JANUARY, CARLOS JULIO TORRADO, MAYOR OF ABREGO IN THE NORTHEASTERN DEPARTMENT OF SANTANDER, WAS KILLED APPARENTLY BY ANOTHER GUERILLA COLUMN, ALSO BELONGING TO THE ELN.</p><p>TORRADO'S SON, WILLIAM; GUSTAVO JACOME QUINTERO, THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT SECRETARY; AND BODYGUARD JAIRO ORTEGA, WERE ALSO KILLED.</p><p>THE GROUP WAS TRAVELING IN A 4-WHEEL DRIVE VEHICLE BETWEEN CUCUTA AND THE RURAL AREA KNOWN AS CAMPANARIO WHEN THEIR VEHICLE WAS BLOWN UP BY FOUR EXPLOSIVE CHARGES THAT DETONATED ON THE HIGHWAY.</p></body></html>