<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML+RDFa 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/DTD/xhtml-rdfa-2.dtd">
<html version="XHTML+RDFa 1.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:dbp="http://dbpedia.org/resource/"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0098"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0098</title></head><body vocab="http://schema.org/"><p>DEV-MUC3-0098 (NOSC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 29 MAR 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] DIEGO MONTANA, ACTING PRESIDENT OF <span><span>THE PATRIOTIC UNION</span> [<span>UP</span>]</span>, TOLD EFE TODAY THAT ONLY THE PARTICIPATION OF <span about="dbp:Simón_Bolívar_Guerrilla_Coordinating_Board" typeof="Organization"><span property="name">THE SIMON BOLIVAR NATIONAL GUERRILLA COORDINATING BOARD</span> (<span property="name">CNG</span>)</span> IN THE PEACE TALKS COULD GUARANTEE A POLITICAL SOLUTION IN COLOMBIA.</p><p><span about="dbp:Simón_Bolívar_Guerrilla_Coordinating_Board" property="description">THE CNG GROUPS THE SIX MAIN LEFTIST GUERRILLA ORGANIZATIONS THAT OPERATE IN COLOMBIA</span>. THERE ARE 20,000 GUERRILLAS IN 100 FRONTS THROUGHOUT COLOMBIA.</p><p>THE GROUPS COMPRISING THE CNG ARE <span about="dbp:FARC"><span property="name">THE REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA</span> (<span property="name">FARC</span>, <span property="description">COMMUNIST</span>)<object style="display:none" rev="rdfs:member" resource="dbp:Simón_Bolívar_Guerrilla_Coordinating_Board"/></span>; AND <span about="dbp:Workers_Revolutionary_Party_of_Colombia"></span>; <span about="dbp:Popular_Liberation_Army"><span property="name">THE POPULAR LIBERATION ARMY</span> (<span property="name">EPL</span>, <span property="description">MAOIST</span>)<object style="display:none" rev="rdfs:member" resource="dbp:Simón_Bolívar_Guerrilla_Coordinating_Board"/></span>; AND <span about="dbp:Workers_Revolutionary_Party_of_Colombia"></span>; <span about="dbp:National_Liberation_Army_(Colombia)"><span property="name">CAMILISTA UNION-ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION</span> (<span property="name">UC-ELN</span>, <span property="description">PRO-CASTROITE</span>)<object style="display:none" rev="rdfs:member" resource="dbp:Simón_Bolívar_Guerrilla_Coordinating_Board"/></span>; AND <span about="dbp:Workers_Revolutionary_Party_of_Colombia"></span>; <span about="dbp:19th_of_April_Movement"><span property="name">THE 19 APRIL MOVEMENT</span> (<span property="name">M-19</span>, <span property="description">NATIONALIST LEFT</span>)<object style="display:none" rev="rdfs:member" resource="dbp:Simón_Bolívar_Guerrilla_Coordinating_Board"/></span>; <span about="dbp:Movimiento_Armado_Quintin_Lame"><span property="name">QUINTIN LAME MOVEMENT</span> (<span property="description">INDIGENIST</span>)<object style="display:none" rev="rdfs:member" resource="dbp:Simón_Bolívar_Guerrilla_Coordinating_Board"/></span>; AND <span about="dbp:Workers_Revolutionary_Party_of_Colombia"><span property="name">THE REVOLUTIONARY WORKERS PARTY</span> (<span property="name">PRT</span>, <span property="description">TROTSKYIST</span>)<object style="display:none" rev="rdfs:member" resource="dbp:Simón_Bolívar_Guerrilla_Coordinating_Board"/></span>; AND <span about="dbp:Workers_Revolutionary_Party_of_Colombia"></span>.</p><p>TALKS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT, THE M-19, AND THE TRADITIONAL POLITICAL PARTIES WILL BEGIN IN BOGOTA ON 3 APRIL AS PART OF THE DIALOGUE PROCESS, WHICH THE GOVERNMENT AND GUERRILLA MOVEMENTS BEGAN LAST JANUARY TO ACHIEVE PEACE.</p><p>THE UP ANNOUNCED IN EARLY MARCH THAT IT WOULD NOT PARTICIPATE IN THE ROUNDTABLES, THE NAME GIVEN TO THE TALKS THAT WILL BEGIN NEXT MONDAY AND IN WHICH THE PARTICIPANTS WILL DISCUSS THE LARGE NUMBER OF POLITICAL CRIMES THAT HAVE BEEN PERPETRATED BY RIGHTIST PARAMILITARY GROUPS.</p><p>SINCE THE UP WAS FOUNDED, NEARLY 1,000 OF ITS MEMBERS AND LEADERS HAVE BEEN MURDERED.</p><p>THE "DIRTY WAR" AGAINST THE LEFT, PROGRESSIVE POLITICIANS, AND HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVISTS HAS RESULTED IN 700 POLITICAL ASSASSINATIONS SO FAR THIS YEAR.</p><p>THERE WERE 2,978 POLITICAL ASSASSINATIONS IN 1988; 1,200 IN 1987; AND 1,000 IN 1986.</p><p>IN ADDITION, NEARLY 1,500 PEOPLE WERE KILLED IN CLASHES BETWEEN THE ARMED FORCES AND GUERRILLAS IN 1988. SO FAR THIS YEAR, ABOUT 100 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KILLED IN CLASHES.</p><p>DIEGO MONTANA TOLD EFE THAT HE WAS PLEASED TO SEE THAT THE M-19 HAD INITIATED PEACE TALKS WITH THE GOVERNMENT, BUT HE NOTED THAT THE REST OF THE CNG ACCOUNTS FOR 84 PERCENT OF THE REBELS.</p><p>"I AM PLEASED TO SEE THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS HOLDING TALKS WITH 16 PERCENT OF THE GUERRILLAS," MONTANA SAID, "BUT THE PEACE PROCESS WILL NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IF THE OTHER 84 PERCENT OF THE GUERRILLA GROUPS KEEP ON FIGHTING."</p><p>MONTANA ALSO PRAISED THE LATEST COMMUNIQUE ISSUED BY THE CNG, WHICH WAS SIGNED BY THE FARC, THE EPL, AND THE UC-ELN, WHICH ANNOUNCED THEIR DECISION TO BEGIN TALKS WITH THE GOVERNMENT, BUT WHICH LINKED THEIR PARTICIPATION TO THE DISMANTLING OF RIGHTIST PARAMILITARY GROUPS.</p><p>MOREOVER, JACOBO ARENAS, COMMANDER OF THE FARC AND MEMBER OF THE CNG STAFF, TOLD BOGOTA EMISORAS CARACOL NETWORK THAT "ANYTHING LEADING TO THE OPENING OF ROADS, THE BUILDING OF BRIDGES, AND THE OPENING OF LOCKS IS BENEFICIAL," AND HE PRAISED THE TALKS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE M-19 IN THAT REGARD.</p><p>ARENAS, HOWEVER, SAID THE M-19 HAD PULLED ITSELF OUT OF THE CNG BY REACHING A PEACE AGREEMENT ON ITS OWN AND THAT IN THE NEXT PLENARY MEETING THE POSSIBLE EXPULSION OF THE M-19 FROM THE CNG WOULD BE STUDIED.</p></body></html>
