<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0295"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0295"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0295</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0295 (INTEL TEXT PROC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 15 JUL 89 (RADIO FARABUNDO MARTI) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION, SALVADORAN PEOPLE. THIS IS OUR WAR BULLETIN FROM THE MODESTO RAMIREZ CENTRAL FRONT IN CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT.</p><p>ON 15 JULY, GUERRILLAS BEGAN THE OPERATION CALLED WE WILL DEFEAT ARENA'S [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] DICTATORSHIP BY HITTING THE PUPPET ARMY. THIS OPERATION WAS CARRIED OUT AGAINST TWO POSITIONS OF THE 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE'S AZMITIA BATTALION STATIONED IN CHALATENANGO, SPECIFICALLY AGAINST AN IRA [INSTITUTE OF SUPPLY REGULATION] CENTER IN SAN JOSE EL CARAO, EL PARAISO. THIS IS HOW THE OPERATION WAS CARRIED OUT:</p><p>SIMULTANEOUS ATTACKS WERE CARRIED OUT ON THREE OF THE ARMY'S FORTIFIED PERIPHERAL DEFENSE POSITIONS. ONE OF THESE POSITIONS WAS COMPLETELY DESTROYED, RESULTING IN 11 OF THE ENEMY KILLED. FOUR ADDITIONAL CASUALTIES WERE INFLICTED ON THE ENEMY IN THE THREE OTHER DEFENSE FORTIFICATIONS, WHICH WERE ALSO DESTROYED.</p><p>WE ALSO ATTACKED THE MAIN SUPPLY CENTER FACILITIES AND STORMED THREE DEFENSIVE POSITIONS IN THE INTERIOR. AS A RESULT OF THIS ATTACK, FOUR OF THE ENEMY WERE KILLED AND FIVE WERE WOUNDED. IN ADDITION, WE DESTROYED THE OFFICES AND A GRAIN DRYER AND DAMAGED THE STORAGE BINS AND GRAIN STORAGE AREAS. WE CONCLUDED THE ATTACK BY SETTING THE ENTIRE FACILITY ON FIRE.</p><p>THE FOLLOWING MILITARY EQUIPMENT WAS SEIZED FROM THE ENEMY DURING THIS VICTORIOUS OPERATION: 3 M-16 RIFLES, 3 FULL SETS [NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED], 1 M-79 GRENADE LAUNCHER WITH 9 GRENADES, 550 5.56-MM ROUNDS OF AMMUNITION, 2 100-CARTRIDGE M-60 AMMUNITION BELTS, UNIFORMS, BOOTS, AND OTHER MILITARY SUPPLIES.</p><p>ONE HOUR AFTER THE ATTACK BEGAN, THE ENEMY WAS REINFORCED BY A ROCKET-FIRING HELICOPTER, ONE PUSH-PULL O-2 AIRCRAFT, AND ONE C-47 AIRCRAFT. IN ADDITION, THE ENEMY RECEIVED ARTILLERY SUPPORT FROM THE AREAS ABOVE THE INSTALLATIONS UNDER ATTACK, BUT THIS FIRE AND THE AIR SUPPORT WERE INEFFECTIVE. THE C-47 AIRCRAFT STRAFED LAS PENAS, WITH COMPLETE DISREGARD FOR THE CIVILIAN POPULATION, A REPRESSIVE ACTION WE VEHEMENTLY DENOUNCE.</p><p>LATER, AT 0300, THE ENEMY TROOPS WERE REINFORCED BY TWO ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIERS AND FOUR MILITARY TRUCKS, WHICH TOOK TROOPS TO A PLACE NEAR THE IRA INSTALLATION. THESE REINFORCEMENTS WERE QUICKLY NEUTRALIZED BY OUR RIFLE FIRE. IN ADDITION, THE OPERATION INCLUDED A LARGE NUMBER OF MILITIAMEN AND REBEL TROOPS, WHO ERECTED ROADBLOCKS ON THE STREETS OF NUEVA CONCEPCION, BLEW UP SIX TELEPHONE POSTS, PLACED A LARGE BANNER ACROSS THE STREET, AND DISTRIBUTED PROPAGANDA. OTHER PROPAGANDA ACTIVITIES OCCURRED IN SAN JOSE PATARES, LA SIEMBRE, GUAYABITO, AND HORCONES IN LA PALMA JUSRISDICTION.</p><p>IN ALL, WE INFLICTED 24 CASUALTIES, INCLUDING DEAD AND WOUNDED, ON THE 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE; HOWEVER, WE LOST COMRADE OTONIEL IN THE ATTACK.</p></body></html>