<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0933"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0933"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0933</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0933 (SRI)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 5 DEC 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] THE PEOPLE'S ANTI-AIRCRAFT POWER HAS BEGUN TO BECOME EFFECTIVE. SALVADORANS, THIS AFTERNOON WE DOWNED AN O-2 AIRPLANE IN THE AREA OF THE CITY OF USULUTAN. RADIO VENCEREMOS REPORTS THAT THE ANTI-AIRCRAFT FIRE OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] DOWNED A PUSH-PULL AIRPLANE THIS AFTERNOON. AT 1615, THE FMLN'S ANTI-AIRCRAFT FIRE DOWNED A PUSH-PULL AIRPLANE OVER THE CITY OF USULUTAN.</p><p>LATER IN THIS PROGRAM WE WILL PROVIDE DETAILS OF THE DOWNING OF THE PUSH-PULL AIRPLANE DOWNED IN THE CITY OF USULUTAN. ITS CREW DIED WHEN THE PLANE CRASHED. IT IS A PLANE THAT CRASHED JUST AS THE REGIME OF 50 YEARS OF INJUSTICE IS CRASHING. WE HAVE DOWNED ONE OF THE PLANES THAT HAD BEEN BOMBING THE ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD. WE HAVE DOWNED A PLANE PILOTED BY THOSE WHO HAD BEEN BRINGING DEATH AND DESTRUCTION TO MEJICANOS, SOYAPANGO, AND SAN MIGUEL. WITH THE DOWNING OF THIS PLANE, OUR PEOPLE AVENGE THE BLOOD SPILLED BY THE GENOCIDE. THIS SHOWS THAT THE FMLN'S ANTI-AIRCRAFT FIRE HAS BEGUN TO BECOME EFFECTIVE.</p></body></html>