<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0809"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0809"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0809</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0809 (PRC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 19 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] CIN REPORTS THE FOLLOWING TO THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE:</p><p>1. THE ARMED FORCES HAS ABSOLUTE CONTROL OVER NATIONAL TERRITORY IN SAN MIGUEL, ZACATECOLUCA, USULUTAN, SANTA ANA, AND SAN SALVADOR. THE SITUATION IS UNDER CONTROL; ONLY A FEW SNIPERS REMAIN IN BUILDINGS AND TREES.</p><p>2. CITIZENS WHO ARE STILL STILL SEEKING REFUGE IN THEIR WORK PLACES ARE ADVISED TO RETURN TO THEIR RESPECTIVE HOMES BEFORE 1800 WHEN THE CURFEW BEGINS.</p><p>3. PARENTS ARE ADVISED TO MAINTAIN CALM IN THEIR HOMES AND ENSURE THAT THEIR CHILDREN DO NOT LEAVE HOME UNTIL ORDER HAS BEEN FULLY RESTORED.</p><p>4. THE PRESS, RADIO, AND TELEVISION ARE WARNED THAT IF THEY BROADCAST ANY INFORMATION TO PUBLIC WHICH HAS NOT BEEN CONFIRMED BY THE CIN, THEY COULD FACE PENALITES; THEIR FACILITIES COULD BE INDEFINITELY CLOSED.</p><p>5. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE MUST REALIZE THAT THE SECURITY CORPS, NATIONAL GUARD, TREASURY POLICE, NATIONAL POLICE, AND RAPID DEPLOYMENT BATTALIONS SUCH AS THE ATLCATL, ATONAL, ARCE, BELLOSO, AND BRACAMONTE, AND BRIGADES BELONGING TO OUR GLORIOUS ARMED FORCES HAVE SUCCESSFULLY DEFEATED FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] MURDERERS TO ENSURE THE FREEDOM AND TRANQUILLITY OF OUR SALVADORAN BROTHERS. WARLIKE OPERATIONS LAUNCHED IN ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD, WHICH INVOLVED GROUND AND AIR FORCES, WERE NECESSARY BECAUSE OF THE VIOLENCE AND CRUELTY SHOWN BY THE TERRORIST MURDERERS AGAINST THE CIVILIAN POPULATION.</p><p>6. ALL BASIC AND VITAL SERVICES IN THE COUNTRY, SUCH AS WATER AND ELECTRICITY, ARE BEING PROVIDED NORMALLY AND ARE UNDER ARMED FORCES CONTROL.</p><p>7. WITH GREAT SATISFACTION, WE REPORT TO THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND ARMED FORCES HAVE RECEIVED EXPRESSIONS OF SUPPORT FROM NEARLY ALL PROFESSIONAL UNIONS AND BUSINESS GROUPS. THEY HAVE AGREED TO RESUME DAILY ACTIVITIES TO SUPPORT PRESIDENT CRISTIANI'S EFFORTS TO BRING ABOUT PEACE AND PROGRESS.</p></body></html>