<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0984"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0984"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0984</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0984 (SRI)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 13 DEC 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] WE COULD SAY THAT TO A GREAT EXTENT THE DECLARATION IS FULL OF PRETTY WORDS, SIMILAR TO THOSE CRISTIANI USES, IN THE PARTS WHERE THE DECLARATION CALLS ON THE FMLN TO JOIN THE ALLEGED DEMOCRATIC PROCESS AND SAYS THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT IS LEGITIMATE. HOWEVER, IF WE LOOK CAREFULLY, WE CAN SEE WHAT IS BEHIND THE WORDS AND THAT IN ADDITION TO DECLARING SUPPORT FOR THE GOVERNMENT, AN ATTEMPT IS MADE TO DO THE SALVADORAN ARMY A FAVOR. THIS IS DONE BY ASKING THE FMLN TO STOP ALL VIOLENT ACTIONS THAT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY AFFECT THE CIVILIAN POPULATION.</p><p>WE KNOW THAT THIS IS HOW THE GOVERNMENT REFERS TO SIEGES ON CITIES, TO TRANSPORTATION STRIKES, AND TO SABOTAGE, THE ARMY'S MOST SERIOUS SOURCES OF CONCERN. UNDERNEATH THIS DECLARATION IS A REQUEST FOR THE FMLN TO LEAVE THE CITIES BECAUSE THE ARMY CAN NO LONGER STAND THE SITUATION AND FEELS IT IS NEAR COLLAPSE.</p><p>THE DECLARATION DOES NOT STATE ANY CONCERN FOR BOMBINGS BECAUSE CONSIDERING THE CONDITION IN WHICH THE GOVERNMENT IS NOW, ANY STATEMENT IN THIS REGARD WOULD BE LIKE ADDING FUEL TO THE FIRE. THE DECLARATION IS LIKE A WALKING STICK TO KEEP THE DICTATORSHIP UP, AND, AS THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND HAS STATED IN A COMMUNIQUE, IT IS EVIDENCE OF THE POLITICAL AND MILITARY CRISIS IN WHICH THIS GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN PLACED AS A RESULT OF THE OFFENSIVE CARRIED OUT BY ALL OF YOU.</p><p>TO CONCLUDE: LET US WAIT AND SEE IF THIS DECLARATION WILL SAVE CRISTIANI FROM INTERNATIONAL ISOLATION. IT IS IMPORTANT TO TAKE INTO CONSIDERATION WHAT THE GENERAL COMMAND HAS STATED IN ITS COMMUNIQUE, THAT THE AGREEMENTS BY GOVERNMENTS THAT DO NOT KNOW THE TRUE SITUATION IN OUR COUNTRY AND THAT SERVE OTHER INTERESTS CANNOT DEMOBILIZE THE FMLN BECAUSE THE FMLN ENJOYS POPULAR SUPPORT THROUGHOUT THE NATION.</p><p>THE FMLN IS NOT LIKE THE CONTRAS WHO ARE IN HONDURAS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS CAN GO TO THEIR CAMPS TO DEMOBILIZE THEM. IN EL SALVADOR THE SITUATION IS VERY DIFFERENT. CRISTIANI HIMSELF WAS UNABLE TO ANSWER A JOURNALIST WHO ASKED HIM IF HE WAS GOING TO DEMOBILIZE THE FMLN IN SAN SALVADOR, IN GUAZAPA, IN CHALATENANGO, AND MORAZAN.</p><p>THE COSTA RICA DECLARATION IS NEITHER REALISTIC NOR VIABLE. THIS IS SOMETHING THAT THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY IS ALREADY POINTING OUT. AN INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION NETWORK HAS SAID THAT FOLLOWING THIS DECLARATION, THE ESQUIPULAS AGREEMENT COULD BECOME JUST WORDS. A JOURNALIST HAS ASKED HOW MUCH THIS ALLEGED INTERNATIONAL VICTORY OF CRISTIANI IS GOING TO LAST.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE ARCHBISHOP OF GUATEMALA HAS SAID THAT HE DOES NOT EXPECT ANYTHING GOOD FROM THE MEETING BECAUSE NEITHER THE CONTRAS NOR THE FMLN WERE PRESENT.</p><p>THE REACTION TO THE RESULTS OF THE PRESIDENTIAL SUMMIT ARE ALONG THESE LINES.</p><p>THE TRUTH IS THAT TRUE FACTS ARE WHAT COUNTS. WORDS AND PAPER ARE ALWAYS DEFEATED BY FACTS. THE TRUTH IS THAT THE ARMY KEEPS BOMBING AND THAT GENOCIDE WILL ALWAYS BE CONDEMNED.</p><p>THE TRUTH IS THAT YOUR EFFORTS, COMRADES, WILL NOT CEASE UNTIL THE DICTATORSHIP IS DEFINITELY DEFEATED.</p></body></html>