<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0004"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0004"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0004</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0004 (NOSC)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 8 JAN 90 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [STATION COMMENTARY] [TEXT] GOODBYE [AIR FORCE COMMANDER] GENERAL RAFAEL BUSTILLO, FALSE HOPE FOR MASS KILLERS. GEN. BUSTILLO RESIGNS OR IS MADE TO RESIGN AS THE AIR FORCE CHIEF. BECAUSE OF THIS, THE GENERAL IS ADMITTING THAT WITHOUT THE BOMBING ON SAN SALVADOR'S NEIGHBORHOODS THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] WOULD HAVE DEFEATED THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES. BUSTILLO'S RESIGNATION IS YET ANOTHER SIGN OF THE FAILURE OF 10 YEARS OF THE U.S. COUNTERINSURGENCY POLICY IN EL SALVADOR, AS BECAME CLEAR WITH THE OFFENSIVE LAUNCHED ON 10 NOVEMBER.</p><p>FOR 10 YEARS THE MILITARY AND THEIR U.S. SPONSORS BASED THEIR TRUST IN THE AIR POWER TO DROWN IN BLOOD THE ASPIRATION OF THE NATION TO ACHIEVE DEMOCRACY AND SOCIAL JUSTICE. THIS FIRST HAPPENED IN THE INTERIOR OF THE COUNTRY, WITH THE DESTRUCTION OF DOZENS OF TOWNS LIKE TENANCINGO, BERLIN, TOROLA, SAN FERNANDO, AND SO MANY OTHERS THAT TOOK PLACE ALONG WITH THE GENOCIDE CARRIED OUT BY THE INFANTRY WITH THE MASS MURDERS OF CIVILIANS IN EL MOSOTO, SUNPUL, AND OCOTAPAYO. BUSTILLO IS LEAVING AS SO MANY GENERALS AND U.S. AMBASSADORS HAVE. AND LIKE ALL OF THEM HIS DEPARTURE REVEALS THE IMPERIALIST POWER'S FAILURE TO CONSOLIDATE ITS COUNTERINSURGENCY PROGRAM IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>AS ALL THE OTHERS WHO HAVE LEFT, BUSTILLO ALSO SEEKS EXCUSES IN THE FACE OF HIS FAILURE, BY ACCUSING OTHERS. HE ACCUSES [FORMER DEFENSE MINISTER EUGENIO] VIDES CASANOVA OF BEING SOFT IN FIGHTING THE PEOPLE'S PLAN. ONE WOULD HAVE TO ASK BUSTILLO IF THE AIR FORCE, OF WHICH HE REPRESENTED ITS MOST ENCOURAGING PILLAR, WAS SOFT WHEN IT MURDERED 70,000 SALVADORANS, MONSIGNOR ARNULFO ROMERO AND THE JESUIT PRIESTS INCLUDED, AND EVEN WHEN IT MURDERED PATRIOT OFFICERS OF THAT SAME ARMY. WAS THE U.S. PENTAGON SOFT WHEN IT GAVE $3 BILLION, WEAPONS, AND BOMBS FOR THE MOST COWARDLY ACT OF GENOCIDE LATIN AMERICA CAN RECALL THIS CENTURY?</p><p>THE U.S. STRATEGY, IMPLEMENTED THROUGH THE TOP MILITARY COMMAND IN THE PAST 10 YEARS WITH ALL ITS MIGHT DID ALL IT COULD SO THAT THE PERMANENT REBELLION IN THE RURAL AREAS REACHED THE COUNTRY'S VITAL CENTERS, AS INDEED HAPPENED AS OF THE 10 NOVEMBER OFFENSIVE. BUSTILLO STATES IT CLEARLY.</p><p>THE BOMBING TEMPORARILY HALTED THE DEFEAT OF THE TOP COMMAND. THROUGH AN ACT OF GENOCIDE, IT MANAGED TO REMOVE THE DISGRUNTLED PEOPLE FROM THE NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE THE GUERRILLA FORCES WERE. BUSTILLO ACKNOWLEDGES GENOCIDE IS THE SOLE WAY THE ARMED FORCES CAN SURVIVE. BUSTILLO ACKNOWLEDGES THE FMLN'S STRENGTH AND THEREFORE URGES THE ARMED FORCES TO BE TOUGHER AND INFLEXIBLE AND REJECTS A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE CONFLICT. A POLITICAL SOLUTION WOULD EXPRESS THE CONSENSUS AMONG THE COUNTRY'S MAJOR SECTORS. OBVIOUSLY THE TOP COMMAND REPRESENTS A DECADENT MINORITY. BUSTILLO SUPPORTS LAUNCHING A FASCIST CRUSADE AGAINST THE PEOPLE'S WISH FOR DEMOCRACY. IN THIS EFFORT, HE LASHES OUT AT THE CATHOLIC CHURCH, ALL OPPOSITION SECTORS THAT REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS, AND ALL SECTORS THAT SUPPORT DEMOCRATIZING THE COUNTRY. IN CONCLUSION, WE SAY THAT BUSTILLO IS NOT RESIGNING OF HIS OWN VOLITION. THE FMLN ACTION ELIMINATED BUSTILLO AS IT ELIMINATED GARCIA, VIDES, AND SO MANY OTHER MILITARY CHIEFS WHO LEFT THEIR POSTS WITHOUT FULFILLING THE TASK COMMISSIONED BY THE UNITED STATES: TO STOP THE FMLN.</p><p>THE FMLN OFFENSIVE BARED THE GENOCIDAL, ANTIPOPULAR, AND FASCIST NATURE OF THE ALFREDO CRISTIANI REGIME TO SUCH AN EXTENT THAT IT PROMPTED A STRONG DEBATE IN THE UNITED STATES ON CUTTING MILITARY AID. THE JESUITS' MURDERS AND THE BOMBINGS SO SHOOK THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY THAT IT IS PRESSURING FOR PUNISHMENT OF THE OFFICERS INVOLVED IN THESE INCIDENTS. HOWEVER, THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION ACCEPTED THIS, SINCE COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE [CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINTS CHIEFS OF STAFF] AND HIS CLIQUE, EVEN CRISTIANI, MUST SHOULDER THIS RESPONSIBILITY. WE MUST NOT FORGET THAT IN COSTA RICA THE SALVADORAN DEFENSE MINISTER DISCLOSED CRISTIANI AUTHORIZED THE BOMBINGS.</p><p>BUSH NEEDED A SCAPEGOAT TO PLACE IT ON THE ALTAR OF THE DEBATES WHICH WILL BEGIN IN THE U.S. CONGRESS ON THE FATE OF MILITARY AID. BUSTILLO IS BUSH'S SCAPEGOAT. HOWEVER, BUSTILLO WAS ALREADY A USELESS ELEMENT OF THE MURDEROUS MACHINERY THAT REMAINS ACTIVE. WILL THE U.S. PUBLIC AND CONGRESS BE APPEASED WITH THIS FOUL TASTING CANDY? TIME AND THE SPIRIT OF THE TIMES ARE OBVIOUSLY RUNNING AGAINST THE FASCIST PROGRAM IN EL SALVADOR. WHILE PEOPLES OF THE WORLD TEAR DOWN DOGMAS, DICTATORSHIPS, AND WALLS, BUSTILLO, WHO LEAVES THROUGH THE DOOR OF DEFEAT, ASKS THE ARMED FORCES TO BE TOUGHER, COMMIT MORE GENOCIDE, AND BUILD MORE WALLS OF REPRESSION AGAINST THE CHURCH, THE PEOPLE, AND THE NATION AS A WHOLE. GOODBYE, GEN. BUSTILLO. WE CONTINUE WRITING HISTORY WITHOUT YOU. THE DECADE WE BEGIN IS OF DEMOCRACY, INDEPENDENCE, AND SELF-DETERMINATION. THAT IS WHY FOREIGN INTERVENTION AND THE WALLS OF INTOLERANCE HAVE A SHORT LIFE SPAN IN THIS COUNTRY, WHERE THE PEOPLE GROW IN HEROISM AND THE STRUGGLE FOR SOCIAL CHANGE IS NOT DETERRED BY BOMBINGS.</p></body></html>