<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0807"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0807"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0807</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0807 (PRC)</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 18 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE REPORT ADDS THAT THE SITUATION IN MORAZAN AND LA UNION DEPARTMENTS IS UNDER THE CONTROL OF MILITARY DETACHMENTS NO 3 AND NO 4, WHICH ARE CURRENTLY CARRYING OUT COMBING OPERATIONS IN THE AREAS UNDER THEIR RESPONSIBILITY. IN ADDITION, THE 6TH INFANTRY BRIGADE HAS REPORTED THAT 56 REBELS HAVE BEEN KILLED AND APPROXIMATELY 60 OTHERS HAVE BEEN WOUNDED SINCE THE BEGINNING OF THE FAILED FINAL OFFENSIVE CALLED "TO THE HILT." THE 6TH INFANTRY BRIGADE ADDS THAT JOINT COUNTERINSURGENCY OPERATIONS ARE BEING CARRIED OUT WITH ATONAL BATTALION TROOPS.</p><p>IN THE LAST 48 HOURS, THE ARMED FORCES HAVE CONFISCATED 10 AK-47 RIFLES, 6 M-16 MACHIGUNES, 2 UZI MACHINEGUNS, 1 MP-5 SUBMACHINEGUN, LARGE QUANTITIES OF AMMUNITION, AND MATERIEL TO MAKE EXPLOSIVES.</p><p>SIMILARLY, THE 6TH INFANTRY BRIGADE REPORTS THAT HARASSMENT OPERATIONS WERE CARRIED OUT THIS MORNING NEAR A CEMETERY, CHULA VISTA NEIGHBORHOOD, AND EL NANZAL HILL ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF THE AFOREMENTIONED CITY.</p><p>PARACENTRAL AREA: THE 5TH INFANTRY BRIGADE, ALONG WITH ITS MILITARY DETACHMENT NO 2 AND ENGINEERS MILITARY DETACHMENT, HAS ITS AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY UNDER CONTROL, ESPECIALLY IN SAN VICENTE, SENSUNTEPEQUE, ILOBASCO, AND OTHER MUNICIPALITIES IN CABANAS AND LA PAZ DEPARTMENTS.</p><p>UP UNTIL NOW, THERE HAVE BEEN ONLY SMALL CLASHES IN NORTHERN ZACATECOLUCA CITY AND IN AREAS SURROUNDING THE ZACATECOLUCA STADIUM AND HOSPITAL. SEVERAL HARASSMENT OPERATIONS AND THE BURNING OF A STEEL FACTORY TOOK PLACE EARLY THIS MORNING IN THOSE AREAS, BUT NO CASUALTIES HAVE BEEN REPORTED.</p><p>MEMBERS OF THE ENGINEERS MILITARY DETACHMENT ARE COMBING THE AFOREMENTIONED AREAS IN ORDER TO COMPLETELY DISLODGE THE TERRORIST GROUPS THAT ARE STILL CIRCULATING IN THE AREA.</p><p>NUMBER OF FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] CASUALTIES UP UNTIL THIS MORNING:</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF CONFIRM THAT 784 TERRORISTS HAVE BEEN KILLED, AND 527 HAVE BEEN WOUNDED. THE ARMED FORCES ALSO REPORT THAT 129 REBELS HAVE BEEN ARRESTED AND THAT 36 OTHERS SHOWED UP AT VARIOUS ARMY POSTS LOCATED THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES CASUALTIES INCLUDE 208 ARMY MEMBERS KILLED AND 427 WOUNDED. AS FOR WEAPONS CONFISCATED, THE ARMY SAYS IT HAS CONFISCATED 370 RIFLES, 82 GRENADE LAUNCHERS, 26 MORTARS, 18 MACHINEGUNS, 17 SUBMACHINEGUNS, LARGE QUANTITIES OF AMMUNITION, HANDGUNS, AND LARGE AMOUNTS OF EXPLOSIVE MATERIEL.</p><p>THE ARMY HAS FOUND MORE WEAPONS IN ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD:</p><p>TODAY, ARMY TROOPS PATROLLING ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD IN NORTHWESTERN SAN SALVADOR FOUND 47 M-16 RIFLES, 35,000 CARTRIDGES, 49 CARTRIDGE CLIPS, AND VARIOUS EXPLOSIVES. THE WEAPONS WERE HIDDEN INSIDE A MEDIUM-SIZE TRUCK FOUND DURING A SEARCH OPERATION CONDUCTED AT NOON TODAY NEAR ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD. AT PRESENT, ARMED FORCES MEMBERS MAINTAIN TOTAL CONTROL OVER THE ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD AND OTHER SURROUNDING AREAS.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES THANK THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE FOR THEIR VALUABLE COOPERATION AND THEIR SUPPORT FOR THE VARIOUS ARMY GROUPS THAT ARE DETERMINED TO DISLODGE THE TERRORIST GROUPS LOCATED IN VARIOUS PARTS OF THE COUNTRY, ESPECIALLY IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>SIMILARLY, THE ARMED FORCES CONGRATULATE OUR GLORIOUS CHIEFS, OFFICERS, AND TROOPS, WHO TENACIOUSLY, BRAVELY, AND HEROICALLY DEFEND OUR PEOPLE AND HOMELAND FROM THE GENOCIDE IMPOSED BY THE FMLN HORDES.</p><p>IN ADDITION, THE ARMED FORCES WARN THE TERRORISTS WHO STILL PERSIST IN THEIR BLIND STRUGGLE AGAINST THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE THAT ITS FIRM AND IMPLACABLE ADVANCE WILL CONTINUE. THE ARMED FORCES ASK THOSE TERRORISTS TO SURRENDER AND TURN THEMSELVES IN TO SPARE THE HONEST POPULATION FROM EVEN MORE SUFFERING. THE ARMED FORCES WILL BE BENEVOLENT WITH THOSE WHO SURRENDER.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES REITERATE THEIR UNYIELDING WILLINGNESS TO CONTINUE STRUGGLING IN DEFENSE OF NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY AND THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS TO PRESERVE THE FREEDOM OF ALL SALVADORANS.</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 18 NOVEMBER 1989</p></body></html>