<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1250"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1250"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BUENOS AIRES"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1250</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1250 (BOEING)</p><p>BUENOS AIRES, 29 APR 90 (CLARIN) -- [ARTICLE] [DANIEL E. ARIAS] [TEXT] EVERYBODY IS PRAISING AND JUSTIFYING THE ARGENTINE CONDOR II PROJECT -- THE ONLY ONE WE HAD -- NOW THAT IT HAS OFFICIALLY DIED, HOWEVER, A MORE TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION OF THE DEFUNCT PROJECT WILL REVEAL THE GAP LEFT BY OUR FLIMSY SPACE PROJECT.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE TYPE OF FUEL USED, MISSILES ARE CLASSIFIED AS SOLID, LIQUID, AND CRYOGENIC-FUELED MISSILES. THE SOLID-FUELED MISSILES CARRY THEIR FUEL (THAT BURNS) AND THE COMBURENT (THAT SUPPLIES THE OXYGEN TO TRIGGER THE COMBUSTION) ON A STICKY ROD, THE COMBUSTION OF WHICH CANNOT BE REGULATED. THE CAKE BURNS COMPLETELY ONCE THE COMBUSTION STARTS. THEREFORE, SOLID-FUELED MISSILES ARE DIFFICULT TO CONTROL ALTHOUGH THEY ARE MUCH SIMPLER AND CHEAPER. MOREOVER, THEY PUT UP WITH ROUGH HANDLING AND CAN BE EASILY FIRED. THE MILITARY PREFER THIS TYPE FOR MANUFACTURING SHORT-RANGE MISSILES.</p><p>THE LIQUID-FUELED MISSILES CARRY THE FUEL AND THE COMBURENT IN COMPLETELY SEPARATE TANKS. THE TWO ELEMENTS MEET IN A COMBUSTION CHAMBER WHERE THEY IGNITE AFTER TRAVELLING THROUGH PIPES. VALVES MAKE IT POSSIBLE TO REGULATE THE POWER OF THE ENGINE. GROUND PERSONNEL ARE ABLE TO STOP THE ENGINE AND RESTART IT IN FULL FLIGHT, IN SHORT, TO CONTROL THE MISSILE AS THEY WISH THROUGH RADIO MESSAGES.</p><p>THE CRYOGENIC-FUELED MISSILES WERE DEVELOPED DURING THE 70'S AND 80'S. THEY CARRY HYDROGEN AND LIQUID GAS WHICH ARE LIGHTER THAN ANY OTHER PROPELLANT ELEMENT BUT WHICH ARE VERY EXPENSIVE TO REFRIGERATE AND TO ISOLATE. THIS TECHNOLOGY MAKES IT POSSIBLE TO BUILD VERY FAST VEHICLES BECAUSE OF THEIR POWER TO WEIGHT RATIO.</p><p>THEY ARE USED TO PLACE HUGE COMMUNICATION SATELLITES IN SPACE SOME 36,000 KM ABOVE THE EQUATOR, OR TO ATTACK A CITY FROM THE OTHER SIDE OF THE WORLD.</p><p>LIQUID-FUELED MISSILES REPRESENT THE TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPED DURING THE 50'S AND 60'S AND, TO A CERTAIN EXTENT, EXPLAINS SOVIET LEADERSHIP IN SPACE RESEARCH. THESE OLD, HEAVY, CUMBERSOME, AND UNBREAKABLE MISSILES DO NOT HAVE FRAGILE EQUIPMENT AND MAKE IT POSSIBLE TO PLACE CARGO INTO OUTER SPACE AT A REASONABLE COST. ON THE OTHER HAND, THE LARGE FAMILY OF U.S. AND EUROPEAN CRYOGENIC- FUELED MISSILES CONTINUE AT AN EXPERIMENTAL STAGE AND ARE UNPREDICTABLE (AS THE CASE OF THE SPACE SHUTTLE AND THE ARIANE IV AND V). MOREOVER, THEY ARE INCREDIBLY COSTLY.</p><p>TOO POOR TO EVEN THINK OF DEVELOPING LIQUID-FUELED MISSILES, BRAZIL AND ARGENTINA HAVE TRIED TO PLACE SOLID-FUELED VEHICLES INTO ORBIT FOR DECADES. THIS IS NOT ALL THAT EASY BECAUSE THESE MISSILES ARE REALLY LITTLE MORE THAN FLYING RODS [CANITAS VOLADORAS], BUT THE CASTOR, WHICH WAS DEVELOPED BY ARGENTINA IN 1978, THE SONDA IV DEVELOPED BY BRAZIL, AND THE JAPANESE LAUNCHING DEVICES DEVELOPED BY ISAS (A UNIVERSITY SPACE RESEARCH AGENCY) HAVE PROVED TO BE REASONABLY MANAGEABLE BEASTS.</p><p>THE CASTOR REPRESENTED THE PHASE PREVIOUS TO DESIGNING A SPACESHIP AND THIS MUST BE THE REASON WHY IT MYSTERIOUSLY DIED IN 1978 AFTER A SERIES OF INCREDIBLY SUCCESSFUL TESTS AND AFTER HAVING ALLOWED US TO REACH AN AGREEMENT FOR A "JOINT-VENTURE" WITH THE FRG TO STUDY THE ATMOSPHERE. THE ABSENCE OF MISTAKES BY A DEBTOR COUNTRY MAY BE FATAL.</p><p>WHEN ARGENTINA ONCE AGAIN STARTED TO DISCREETLY THINK ABOUT OUTER SPACE (1982/83), IT ALREADY HAD ENOUGH KNOWLEDGE TO CONSIDER LARGER PROJECTS. IN FACT, WITH ITS ONE METER DIAMETER TUBE, THE CONDOR COULD PLACE A 200 KG CARGO IN A LOW POLAR ORBIT OF ONLY 200 KM.</p><p>THIS PROJECT WOULD HAVE ALLOWED ARGENTINA TO HAVE ONE OR MORE PAIRS OF EYES IN SPACE SO THAT COULD ASSESS ITS NATURAL RESOURCES, PREDICT THE WATER FLOW OF RIVERS ON WHICH HYDROELECTRIC DAMS COULD BE BUILT, DETERMINE WHERE IT COULD FIND OIL AND URANIUM, AND CHEAPLY STOP ILLEGAL FISHING ON THE CONTINENTAL PLATFORM. THIS POSSIBILITY COULD NOT BE ACCEPTED BY SOME PEOPLE.</p><p>BRAZIL, WHICH IS LESS HARD UP, IS ABOUT TO PROGRESS FROM THE SONDA IV TO THE SONDA V AND HAS OPENLY INVITED US TO JOINTLY DEVELOP THE SPACESHIP. WHAT WILL ARGENTINA ANSWER? "WE WILL"? OR WILL IT HAVE A CHAUVINIST ATTITUDE? WHAT A PITY IT DID NOT ADOPT THAT ATTITUDE NOW THAT IT IS LETTING THE CONDOR PROJECT DIE IN ITS FIRST STAGE -- IT WAS NEVER TESTED -- WHEN THE PRESSURE IS NOT AS GREAT AS IT HAS BEEN. WORST OF IT ALL IS THAT IT IS NOT RECEIVING ANYTHING IN EXCHANGE.</p><p>VERY WELL THEN, IT IS ACCEPTED, THE CONDOR WILL GO NO FURTHER. WHAT IS LEFT? VERY LITTLE. SHOULD WE DEVELOP SATELLITES EXCLUSIVELY FOR SPACE RESEARCH TO DISCOVER THE SECRETS OF THE SUN, OR STUDY THE COSMIC EXPLOSIONS OF X-RAYS. THESE ISSUES, IF UNAFFECTED BY ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL FACTORS, DO NOT DISTURB ANYBODY. THE NASA IS QUITE WILLING TO GIVE US ROOM, FREE OF CHARGE, ON THEIR ROCKETS FOR THIS TYPE OF SATELLITES. THERE IS NO POSSIBILITY THAT WE WILL GAIN EITHER MONEY OR SPACE SOVEREIGNTY. THERE IS NO NEED TO POINT OUT THAT ANY SIMILARITY BETWEEN THIS POSSIBILITY AND AN INDEPENDENT SPACE RESEARCH PROGRAM, SUCH AS BRAZIL'S, IS MERE COINCIDENCE.</p><p>IN THE 80'S ARGENTINA ALLOWED ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM, WHICH AT THAT TIME WAS THE MOST ADVANCED IN THE THIRD WORLD, TO BE HINDERED. NOW IT IS ALLOWING ITS WINGS TO BE CLIPPED AND, WITH A STUPID SMILE, IS YIELDING EVERY ATTEMPT TO ACHIEVE SOVEREIGNTY IN SPACE. EACH ATTEMPT TO DEVELOP TECHNOLOGY IS LABELLED ARMS ESCALATION BY THOSE CHAMPIONS OF PEACE, OUR CREDITORS.</p><p>IT IS QUITE TRUE, THE CONDOR II MAY BE A MISSILE, AS A CARGO AIRCRAFT MAY DROP BOMBS AND A TRUCK MAY BE EQUIPPED WITH ARTILLERY FOR WAR. DOES THIS MEAN THAT ARGENTINA MUST STOP MANUFACTURING ALL TYPE OF VEHICLES? THIS QUESTION IS NOT POINTLESS IN A COUNTRY THAT REFUSES TO MAKE ANY PROGRESS.</p></body></html>