<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0755"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0755"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0755</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0755 (U NEBRASKA)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 15 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] "ATTENTION, PAY CLOSE ATTENTION. WE CALL ON THE INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS, THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS, BROTHER PEOPLES OF THE WORLD. WE HAVE CONTACTED [FMLN GUERRILLA COMMANDER] MARISOL GALINDO IN SAN MIGUEL CITY. SHE REPORTS THAT RIGHT NOW COLONEL VARGAS IS FOLLOWING A SUICIDAL AND GENOCIDAL ATTITUDE AND IS BOMBING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION IN SAN MIGUEL.</p><p>"THERE ARE MANY DEAD AND WOUNDED DUE TO THE 500-LB BOMBS, THE ROCKETS, AND THE STRAFING BY THE AIR FORCE IN THE NORTHERN AREA OF SAN MIGUEL CITY. BOMBS AND ROCKETS HAVE BEEN DROPPED IN THE CITY, KILLING AND WOUNDING MANY PERSONS IN SAN MIGUEL CITY.</p><p>"WE URGENTLY CALL ON THE INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS TO IMMEDIATELY EVACUATE DOZENS OF WOMEN, CHILDREN, AND ELDERLY WHO HAVE BEEN GRAVELY WOUNDED BY THIS IRRESPONSIBLE AND GENOCIDAL BOMBING BY COL MAURICIO VARGAS, CHIEF OF THE 3D INFANTRY BRIGADE. WE CALL ON THE PEOPLES OF THE WORLD SO THAT IMMEDIATELY THEY WILL DENOUNCE BEFORE THE WORLD WHAT IS HAPPENING IN SAN MIGUEL CITY. SOMOZA'S BOMBING OF THE NICARAGUAN PEOPLE IS ONE-THOUSAND TIMES WORSE IN EL SALVADOR."</p></body></html>