<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0415"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0415"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0415</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0415 (LANG SYS INC)</p><p>BOGOTA, 2 SEP 89 (FBIS) -- [EDITORIAL REPORT] [TEXT] BOGOTA INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 2 BROADCASTS A SERIES OF REPORTS, TOTALING ABOUT 10 MINUTES, ON THE 2 SEPTEMBER BOMB ATTACK CARRIED OUT AGAINST THE FACILITIES OF THE BOGOTA NEWSPAPER EL ESPECTADOR.</p><p>THE FIRST REPORT BEGINS BY SAYING THAT THE FACILITIES OF THE NEWSPAPER EL ESPECTADOR WERE THE "TARGET OF A BRUTAL TERRORIST ATTACK IN WHICH MANY INNOCENT PEOPLE WERE INJURED." THE REPORT ADDS THAT "TODAY A TRUCK BOMB CARRYING ALMOST 200 KG OF DYNAMITE WENT OFF AT A LARGE GAS STATION LOCATED NEXT TO THE FACILITIES OF THE NEWSPAPER EL ESPECTADOR. THE ATTACK IS ONE OF THE MOST SERIOUS TERRORIST ATTACKS CONDUCTED IN BOGOTA IN THE LAST FEW MONTHS."</p><p>THE NEXT REPORT SAYS THAT "TODAY'S EXPLOSION CAUSED A TRUE HOSPITAL EMERGENCY IN BOGOTA. ONE PERSON WAS KILLED AND 86 OTHERS INJURED, INCLUDING 6 WHO WERE SERIOUSLY INJURED AS A RESULT OF THE ATTACK."</p><p>THE REPORT STATES THAT "THE NEWSPAPER EL ESPECTADOR WAS VIRTUALLY PARALYZED TODAY, ALTHOUGH ITS DIRECTORS SAID THAT IT WILL CIRCULATE TOMORROW NO MATTER WHAT. HERNANDO SANTOS, CHIEF EDITOR OF THE COLOMBIAN NEWSPAPER EL TIEMPO, EVEN OFFERED WORKSHOPS AND ROTARY PRESSES TO ASSEMBLE AND PRINT EL ESPECTADOR IF THAT WERE NECESSARY."</p><p>THE REPORT CONTINUES THAT "LOSSES OF OVER 200 MILLION PESOS OCCURRED AS A RESULT OF THE EXPLOSION IN WESTERN BOGOTA THIS MORNING. THE NEWSPAPER EL ESPECTADOR FACILITIES WERE LEFT AS IF THEY HAD BEEN BOMBED." THE REPORT ADDS THAT MOST OF THE INTERIOR WAS "VISIBLY" DESTROYED AND THAT THERE ARE CRACKS IN THE OUTER AND INNER WALLS OF THE BUILDING.</p><p>THE REPORT INCLUDES RECORDED STATEMENTS BY EL ESPECTADOR GENERAL MANAGER ALFONSO CANO WHO STATES THAT "EL ESPECTADOR HAS FOLLOWED A SPECIFIC LINE FOR THE LAST 102 YEARS. THAT LINE WILL NOT CHANGE BECAUSE WE WERE THE TARGETS OF A BOMB ATTACK OR BECAUSE ITS REPORTERS ARE KILLED. WE WILL CIRCULATE TOMORROW EVEN IF WE PRINT A 2-PAGE NEWSPAPER."</p><p>FINALLY, THE REPORT CONCLUDES BY SAYING THAT "IN A FEW MINUTES THE NEWSPAPER EL ESPECTADOR DIRECTORS WILL ISSUE A COMMUNIQUE ON THE ATTACK IN WHICH THEY WILL EXPRESS THEIR REJECTION OF THESE TERRORIST ATTACKS."</p></body></html>