<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-1199"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-1199"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY"/><title>DEV-MUC3-1199</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-1199 (SYNCHRONETICS)</p><p>NO CITY, NO DATE (FBIS) -- [TEXT] BOGOTA DOMESTIC SERVICE IN SPANISH AT 0230 GMT BEGINS TO BROADCAST LIVE OR RECORDED A SPEECH BY PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS FROM THE NARINO PALACE IN BOGOTA. RECEPTION IS FAIR TO POOR.</p><p>BARCO BEGINS HIS ADDRESS BY EXPRESSING HIS CONCERN OVER THE DISNFORMATION CAMPAIGN SURROUNDING THE RECENT EVENTS THAT HAVE TAKEN PLACE. HE GOES ON TO CITE THE VARIOUS ITEMS BEING PUBLISHED BY THE COUNTRY'S MEDIA CONCERNING SECRET DEALINGS WITH DRUG TRAFFICKERS, A RELAXATION OF ACTIONS AGAINST THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS, AND OTHER STORIES WHICH HE INSISTS ARE NOT TRUE.</p><p>HE BLAMES NARCOTERRORISM FOR THE VIOLENCE AND CONFUSION WARNS THAT SOME PEOPLE ARE BEGINNING TO BLAME THE GOVERNMENT. BARCO NOTES THAT THE GOVERNMENT RESPECTS THE MEDIA AND SUGGESTS THAT PUBLIC OPINION IS BEING MANIPULATED. HE THEN TOUCHES ON THE CONTROVERSY REGARDING THE KIDNAPPING OF THE SON OF THE SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE PRESIDENCY. BARCO SAYS: "THE GOVERNMENT, IN THE CASE OF THE KIDNAPPING OF DR. MONTOYA'S SON, AS ON OTHER UNFORTUNATE OCCASIONS, INCLUDING THE CASES OF DR. ANDRES PASTRANA AND DR. ALVARO GOMEZ, AND EVEN CASES IN WHICH MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES HAVE BEEN KDNAPPED BY SUBVERSIVES, HAS CONSIDERED AS APPROPRIATE AND VALUABLE THE EFFORTS MADE BY THOSE WHO PERFORMED HUMANITARIAN DUTIES AND SHOWED GOOD WILL FOR THEIR RELEASE." HE ADDS THAT NEITHER THE SECURITY COUNCIL NOR THE PRESIDENT CAN BE PREVENTED FROM ASCERTAINING INFORMATION WHICH COULD LEAD TO THE RELEASE OF HOSTAGES.</p><p>BARCO SAYS THAT THE STRUGGLE AGAINST NARCOTERRORISM HAS NOT BEEN EASY. HE ADDS THAT KEEPING THE HOPES OF THE NATION ALIVE, RATHER THAN ENHANCING THE COUNTRY'S IMAGE, IS THE GOAL. HE ADDS THAT THE COUNTRY WILL NOT SURVIVE WITH ITS PROBLEMS, NOTING HIS UPCOMING EUROPEAN TRIP TO SPEAK OUT AGAINST THE DANGERS OF DRUG TRAFFICKING AND TO REAFFIRM THE COUNTRY'S GOOD NAME.</p><p>IN ENDING HIS ADDRESS, BARCO URGES CALM AND WARNS AGAINST DIVISION, ADDING THAT THIS IS THE GOAL OF THE ENEMIES OF THE FATHERLAND. HE URGES EVERYONE TO DEFEND THEIR DEMOCRACY.</p><p>BARCO ENDS HIS ADDRESS AT 0250 GMT.</p><p>FURTHER AS WARRANTED.</p></body></html>