<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="DEV-MUC3-0957"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="DEV-MUC3-0957"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>DEV-MUC3-0957</title></head><body><p>DEV-MUC3-0957 (SRI)</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 6 DEC 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [GENERAL COMMAND OF THE GUATEMALAN NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY UNITY, URNG] [TEXT] WE CONDEMN GUATEMALAN INTERVENTION IN EL SALVADOR. THE URNG GENERAL COMMAND EXPRESSES ITS STRONG SOLIDARITY AND DEEP ADMIRATION FOR THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND THEIR VANGUARD, THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT], WHO WITH GREAT HEROISM AND DETERMINATION ARE WRITING ONE OF THE MOST GLORIOUS PAGES OF ITS HISTORY.</p><p>WE VIEW WITH PROFOUND INDIGNATION HOW THE OFFICERS OF LA TANDONA [REFERENCE TO THE 1966 GRADUATING CLASS OF THE CAPTAIN GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY ACADEMY] AND THE ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] GOVERNMENT HEADED BY CRISTIANI, IN VIEW OF THEIR INABILITY TO DEFEAT, REPEL, OR CONTAIN THE HEROIC FMLN, HAVE DECIDED TO CONTINUE MASSIVE BOMBINGS AGAINST DEFENSELESS CIVILIANS, SOW DEATH AND DESTRUCTION, AND COMMIT MASSACRES.</p><p>THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT AND THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES, WHICH ARE DESPERATE DUE TO THE VICTORIOUS ADVANCES OF THE FMLN FORCES -- WHICH HAVE NOT ONLY MAINTAINED, BUT EXPANDED THEIR POSITIONS IN SAN SALVADOR AND THE REST OF THE TERRITORY OF THAT FRATERNAL COUNTRY -- HAVE LOST CONTROL.</p><p>WITH VENGEANCE IN THEIR MINDS, THEY HAVE BEGUN TO IMPLEMENT A NUMBER OF CRIMINAL ACTIONS AGAINST ALL THOSE IDENTIFIED WITH THE JUST STRUGGLES OF THE MAJORITY. AT DAWN ON 16 NOVEMBER, SIX JESUIT PRIESTS AND TWO HUMBLE WOMEN WHO WORKED FOR THEM WERE BRUTALLY ASSASSINATED. WE SHARE THE GREAT SORROW OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITY OF JESUIT PRIESTS AND ADD OUR PROTEST TO THOSE OF OTHERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD WHO HAVE ALREADY PROTESTED THESE DESPICABLE ASSASSINATIONS.</p><p>THE URNG GENERAL COMMAND STRONGLY CONDEMNS THIS INCIDENT AND URGES ALL GUATEMALANS AND ALL POLITICAL, SOCIAL, DEMOCRATIC, AND RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS TO SPEAK OUT IN THE FACE OF THESE GENOCIDAL AND BARBARIC ACTIONS THAT ARE ONLY COMPARABLE TO WHAT THE UNITED STATES DID IN VIETNAM AND THE NAZIS DID IN WORLD WAR II.</p><p>IN OUR 13 NOVEMBER STATEMENT, WE DENOUNCED THE GUATEMALAN ARMY'S INTERVENTIONIST PLANS AGAINST THAT FRATERNAL COUNTRY. ON 15 NOVEMBER, PRESS AGENCIES REPORTED THAT THE GUATEMALAN ARMY HAD DEPLOYED 126 UNITS OF THE SPECIAL KAIBILES [COUNTERINSURGENCY] TROOPS, WHO ARE KNOWN FOR THEIR PATHOLOGICAL SAVAGERY.</p><p>PRESIDENT CEREZO, THE COMMANDER OF THE MILITARY STAFF, AND THE OFFICIAL SPOKESMAN OF THE GUATEMALAN ARMED FORCES HAVE PUBLICLY EXPRESSED THEIR SOLIDARITY WITH CRISTIANI AND THE SALVADORAN ARMY. WE CONDEMN WITH ALL OUR STRENGTH THE GUATEMALAN ARMY'S INTERVENTION AMONG THE GLORIOUS SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>WE CALL ON ALL SEGMENTS OF THE GUATEMALAN POPULATION TO EXPRESS THEIR OPPOSITION AGAINST THIS INTERVENTION. WE WILL ENSURE THAT THE GUATEMALAN ARMY AND GOVERNMENT PAY DEARLY FOR THEIR AGGRESSION AGAINST THE FRATERNAL SALVADORAN PEOPLE. WE ADVISE THE WORLD THAT EL SALVADOR MIGHT FACE AN EVEN WORSE GENOCIDE THAN THE ONE IT IS CURRENTLY ENDURING. WE ARE SURE THAT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WILL DEFEAT ALL THEIR ENEMIES, WIN THIS HISTORIC STRUGGLE, AND ACHIEVE THEIR GOALS. THE BLOOD THAT HAS BEEN SHED WILL BREED NEW LIFE AND WILL UNDOUBTELY LEAD US TO FREEDOM, DEMOCRACY, AND PEACE.</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 17 NOVEMBER 1989</p><p>URNG GENERAL COMMAND</p><p>COMMANDERS ROLANDO MORAN, PABLO MONSANTO, GASPAR ILOM, AND CARLOS GONZALEZ, PGT [GUATEMALAN LABOR PARTY] SECRETARY GENERAL</p></body></html>