<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0023"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0023"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-09-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="PANAMA CITY (PANAMA)"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0023</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0023</p><p>PANAMA CITY (PANAMA), 26 SEP 88 (TELEVISORA NATIONAL) -- [REPORT ON NEWS CONFERENCE HELD BY ATTORNEY GENERAL CARLOS VILLALAZ, ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL MARIO BALLESTEROS, PANAMA DEFENSE FORCES (FDP) G-2 LIEUTENANT COLONEL GUILLERMO WONG, AND NATIONAL INVESTIGATIONS DEPARTMENT (DENI) DIRECTOR LIEUTENANT COLONEL NIVALDO MADRINAN WITH LOCAL AND INTERNATIONAL REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [BEGIN RECORDING] [MADRINAN] THE PLAN INCLUDED SEVERAL POINTS. THE PURPOSE OF THIS PLAN WAS TO PRESSURE GENERAL NORIEGA TO RESIGN FROM HIS MILITARY POST IN LATE AUGUST.</p><p>THE PSYCHOLOGICAL OBJECTIVES OF THIS PLAN WERE: TO INTENSIFY AND SPREAD THE REPUDIATION OF NORIEGA WITHIN THE FDP; TO INTENSIFY AND SPREAD THE REPUDIATION OF NORIEGA'S COLLABORATORS BY MENTIONING SPECIFIC NAMES; TO CONVINCE NORIEGA THAT HE HAD LOST FDP SUPPORT AND THAT HIS REGIME WAS UNSUSTAINABLE; TO CONVINCE NORIEGA'S PANAMANIAN COLLABORATORS THAT HE HAD LOST FDP SUPPORT AND THAT HIS REGIME WAS UNSUSTAINABLE; TO CONVINCE FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS AND NORIEGA ALLIES, PARTICULARLY CUBA AND NICARAGUA, THAT HE HAD LOST FDP SUPPORT AND THAT HIS GOVERNMENT WAS UNSUSTAINABLE; TO CONVINCE GOVERNMENTS THAT WERE HOSTILE TO NORIEGA, ESPECIALLY VENEZUELA AND COLOMBIA, THAT HE HAD LOST FDP SUPPORT AND THAT HIS REGIME WAS UNSUSTAINABLE; TO CONVINCE FOREIGN REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENTS THAT DEALT WITH NORIEGA, SUCH AS THE FMLN AND THE M-19, THAT HE HAD LOST FDP SUPPORT AND THAT HIS REGIME WAS UNSUSTAINABLE; AND TO MOVE THE ANTI-NORIEGA SECTOR WITHIN THE FDP TO SUPPORT SPECIFIC ACTIONS AGAINST NORIEGA'S REGIME.</p><p>THE FDP MEMBERS, OFFICERS, AND TROOPS WERE THE TARGETS OF THIS PLAN. WE SEE HOW SOME WERE TAKEN IN BY THE PSYCHOLOGICAL OPERATIONS PLAN. THE TARGETS OF THIS PLAN WERE GEN NORIEGA, NORIEGA'S PANAMANIAN COLLABORATORS WITHIN THE FDP, SOME CIVILIANS, FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS THAT ARE NORIEGA'S ALLIES, FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS THAT ARE HOSTILE TO NORIEGA, AND FOREIGN REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS THAT DEAL WITH NORIEGA. THEY IDENTIFIED ALL OF NORIEGA'S VULNERABILITIES, AS WELL AS THE VULNERABILITIES OF ALL THE TARGETS WE HAVE ALREADY MENTIONED.</p><p>THERE WERE CERTAIN THEMES USED IN THESE PSYCHOLOGICAL OPERATIONS, AND THE MEDIA FELL FOR THEM MANY TIMES. THIS IS WHY WE REPEATEDLY ASKED THEM NOT TO FALL FOR THIS MISINFORMATION.</p><p>THESE THEMES INCLUDED: BY IMPOSING HIS ARBITRARY NATURE AND CORRUPTION, NORIEGA IS PERVERTING THE FDP AND PROMOTING THE DISINTEGRATION OF THAT MILITARY INSTITUTION. THE FDP HAVE BECOME A MAFIA THAT IS HEADING TOWARD DISGRACE. THIS IS A TOPIC THAT HAS BEEN DISCUSSED IN LEAFLETS AND MANY PUBLICATIONS.</p><p>BY DISRUPTING THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORDER AT HIS WHIM, NORIEGA IS PROVOKING A PROFOUND SOCIAL, ECONOMIC, AND POLITICAL CRISIS THAT IS RUINING THE COUNTRY. THIS IS DONE TO HIDE THOSE WHO ARE TRULY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CRISIS WE ARE EXPERIENCING. THE LONGER NORIEGA REMAINS IN POWER, THE MORE PROBABLE BECOMES A U.S., CUBAN, OR SOVIET INTERVENTION. THE DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL CONFLICTS PROVOKED BY NORIEGA NEGATIVELY AFFECT THE PERSONAL WELL-BEING OF THE FDP MEMBERS AND THEIR FAMILIES.</p><p>NORIEGA'S FALL IS INEVITABLE AND THE FDP SHOULD NOT FALL WITH HIM. TO SAVE THE FDP AND THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA, THE FDP MUST REMOVE NORIEGA FROM OFFICE. THIS IS WHY THERE WERE SIREN SONGS THAT AN INTERNAL COUP WAS UNDER WAY.</p><p>THE STATE SECURITY ORGANIZATIONS HAVE BEEN FOLLOWING THIS CASE FOR 5 MONTHS AND WE KNOW THE FUGITIVES ARE IN THE UNITED STATES. WE KNOW WHERE THEY LEFT FROM. NO ONE CAN DENY THE ASSOCIATION OF CERTAIN U.S. CITIZENS WHO ARE INVOLVED IN THIS OPERATION WITH THE PANAMANIAN GROUPS THAT WERE CAPTURED.</p><p>WE HAVE THE EVIDENCE, THE WEAPONS, THE INSTRUMENTS USED FOR MISINFORMATION, THE PLANS, AND THE MAPS WITH THE TARGETS FOR VIOLENCE. IMPORTANT PEOPLE WHO WERE GOING TO BE KIDNAPPED HAD ALSO BEEN MARKED ON THESE MAPS. THEY HAD MARKED THE BRIDGES THAT WERE TO BE DESTROYED.</p><p>GENTLEMEN, WE KNOW THE POWER OF WEAPONS AND WE KNOW HOW TO USE THEM. WE KNOW THE DAMAGE THEY CAN DO. THEREFORE, BEFORE THERE WAS A VIOLENT CONFRONTATION BETWEEN THE PANAMANIAN PEOPLE AND THEIR FDP, WE WENT ONE STEP AHEAD OF THEIR PLANS. IF ARRESTS WERE MADE, IT WAS BECAUSE WE WANTED TO AVOID A CONFRONTATION WITH INEXPERIENCED GROUPS THAT ALLOWED THEMSELVES TO BE USED FOR THE PERSONAL BENEFIT OF THOSE WHO RECEIVED, WITH A SIREN SONG, THE PROMISE OF THE PANAMANIAN PEOPLE'S $30 MILLION THAT ERIC ARTURO DELVALLE WAS GOING TO USE FOR SUBVERSIVE ACTS, BLOODY ACTS TO BATHE OUR PEOPLE IN BLOOD, AS IN THE CASE OF THE STRUGGLE OF OUR BROTHER COUNTRIES IN LATIN AND CENTRAL AMERICA.</p><p>WE WILL NOT PERMIT THAT. THAT IS WHY WE DECIDED TO GO ONE STEP AHEAD AND FOIL THESE PLANS THAT HAVE A CERTAIN PURPOSE AND THAT WOULD RESULT IN MOURNING AND PAIN FOR PANAMANIAN FAMILIES.</p><p>WE HAVE THE EVIDENCE AND THOSE WHO WERE ARRESTED WERE DAMN WELL ARRESTED: ALBERTO CONTE, FRED BOYD, AND ALL THOSE PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN WORKING BEHIND THE SCENES SO EDUARDO HERRERA AND FRIENDS CAN LIVE LIKE KINGS IN THE UNITED STATETS, SO THEY CAN LIVE THEIR LIVES DRINKING CHAMPAGNE AND EATING PHEASANT.</p><p>EDUARDO HERRERA WAS DISMISSED FROM A DIPLOMATIC POST FOR SMUGGLING 40 BOXES OF WHISKEY PER WEEK INTO ISRAEL. HE IS THE KIND OF PERSON PROTECTED BY THE PENTAGON AND ELLIOTT ABRAMS. HE IS ELLIOTT ABRAMS' HERO.</p><p>THERESA WELLINGTON OF THE [U.S.] EMBASSY IN MEXICO, WHO GAVE THESE PEOPLE--WHO LEFT PANAMA FOR MEXICO-- THEIR VISAS IN 10 MINUTES BY ABRAMS' ORDERS, HAS ALSO BECOME ONE OF OUR PEOPLE'S ENEMIES. [END RECORDING] [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>