<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0011"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0011"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-08-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0011</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0011</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 9 AUG 88 (LA PRENSA) -- [LETTER SENT BY PRESIDENT OSCAR ARIAS TO NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ORTEGA] [TEXT] DEAR MR PRESIDENT:</p><p>ON THE ROAD TOWARD ACHIEVING PEACE, WE HAVE OFTEN EXPERIENCED SETBACKS AND DIFFICULT TIMES. POWERFUL FORCES ARE TRYING TO JUSTIFY VIOLENCE AND WAR EVERY TIME DIPLOMATIC CHANNELS OR COMMITMENTS ARE NOT FOLLOWED OR MET.</p><p>WHEN THERE IS AN ARMED STRUGGLE AND WHEN THOUSANDS ARE KILLED ON THE BATTLEFIELD, THOSE WHO PROMOTE VIOLENCE NEVER CONCLUDE FROM THOSE USELESS KILLINGS THAT WAR IS FUTILE. THEY DO NOT BELIEVE THAT PEACE CAN BE ACHIEVED THROUGH DIALOGUE AND NEGOTIATION.</p><p>IT WILL ALWAYS BE EASIER TO RECTIFY MISTAKES WHEN THE WEAKNESSES ARE POLITICAL OR WHEN ERRORS ARE MADE ON THE ROAD TO PEACE. WE CANNOT BRING THE DEAD BACK TO LIFE, AND VIOLENCE BORN OF HATRED TAKES A LONG TIME TO HEAL.</p><p>I BELIEVE, MR PRESIDENT, THAT IT WOULD BE ENCOURAGING IF YOU WERE TO RECTIFY SOME POLITICAL DECISIONS YOUR GOVERNMENT MADE FOLLOWING THE UNFORTUNATE INCIDENTS AT NANDAIME. IT IS IMPORTANT TO REOPEN THE COMMUNICATIONS MEDIA THAT ARE CLOSED. IT IS NECESSARY TO RELEASE THE PRISONERS AND TO REVOKE THE SENTENCES IMPOSED UPON THEM AS PUNISHMENT FOR INVOLVEMENT IN THOSE INCIDENTS. THE PEACE PLAN TO WHICH WE ARE COMMITTED OBLIGES US TO RESTORE CONFIDENCE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. OUR MOST SACRED COMMITMENT IS TO CONTINUE PROGRESSING ON THE PATH TOWARD DEMOCRATIZATION.</p><p>IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT YOUR GOVERNMENT AND THE NICARAGUAN CONTRAS RESUME NEGOTIATIONS TO SECURE A PERMANENT END TO MILITARY ACTIONS IN NICARAGUA. THIS COULD VERY WELL BE AN ENCOURAGING EXAMPLE FOR MANY CENTRAL AMERICAN AND OTHER COUNTRIES. I OFFER YOU OUR COSTA RICAN TERRITORY FOR THE RESUMPTION OF SUCH NEGOTIATIONS. I ALSO OFFER YOU ALL THE ASSISTANCE WITHIN MY MEANS TO ENABLE SUCH NEGOTIATIONS TO TAKE PLACE.</p><p>I UNDERSTAND THAT YOU WILL ATTEND THE UPCOMING INAUGURAL CEREMONY IN ECUADOR. I BELIEVE IT WOULD BE A SIGN OF CONFIDENCE IN THE FUTURE OF PEACE, A NOBLE GESTURE TOWARD RODRIGO BORJA, AND WOULD AID IN STRENGTHENING THE ECUADORAN DEMOCRATIC PROCESS IF YOU ATTENDED THE CEREMONY IN QUITO AFTER REVERSING THE SETBACKS INCURRED AS A RESULT OF ANTIDEMOCRATIC ACTIONS, SUCH AS PENALIZING THE COMMUNICATIONS MEDIA AND DEPRIVING MEN AND WOMEN OF THEIR LIBERTY.</p><p>ONLY IF WE HAVE THE STRENGTH TO CORRECT OUR MISTAKES AND THE VISION TO CONTINUE ON THE PATH OUTLINED IN THE PEACE PLAN CAN CENTRAL AMERICANS PREVENT THE CONTINUANCE OF THE ARMED AGGRESSION AGAINST OUR PEOPLES. A LATIN AMERICAN COMMITMENT TO PEACE ALSO REQUIRES EFFORTS TO ACHIEVE INDEPENDENCE AND DEMOCRACY. WE WILL NOT BE GRANTED ANOTHER POLITICAL OPPORTUNITY TO FORGE HISTORY. IT IS UNLIKELY THAT THERE WILL BE A NEW OPPORTUNITY FOR RECONCILIATION TO ALLOW TODAY'S YOUTH A DIFFERENT FUTURE, A NEW OPPORTUNITY TO PUT ASIDE THEIR WEAPONS AND TO WORK FOR A BETTER FUTURE.</p></body></html>