<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0020"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0020"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-09-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0020</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0020</p><p>SANTIAGO, 22 SEP 88 (RADIO CHILENA NETWORK) -- [EXCERPTS] THE CHILEAN HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITTEE HAS HANDED GENERAL PINOCHET A PUBLIC PETITION REQUESTING HIM TO EXPLAIN TO THE COUNTRY SOME SERIOUS CRIMES, WHICH CANNOT BE DENIED, THAT OCCURRED DURING HIS TERM IN OFFICE. THIS PETITION EXPRESSES THE CONCERN OF THE CHILEAN PEOPLE REGARDING THESE CRIMES.</p><p>THE PETITION WAS RELEASED BY REPRESENTATIVES OF THE CHILEAN HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITTEE, WHICH IS HEADED BY LAWYER JAIME CASTILLO VELASCO AND MAXIMO PACHECO, WHO WAS EDUCATION MINISTER DURING PRESIDENT EDUARDO FREI'S ADMINISTRATION.</p><p>THE PETITION, WHICH IS ADDRESSED TO MR AUGUSTO PINOCHET UGARTE--APPOINTED PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC FOR ANOTHER PERIOD OF GOVERNMENT [AS HEARD] AND THE HIGHEST EXECUTIVE BRANCH REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE PAST 15 YEARS--POINTS OUT SOME SERIOUS HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS, WHICH MUST BE EXPLAINED.</p><p>THESE VIOLATIONS OCCURRED DURING THE PERIOD FOLLOWING 11 SEPTEMBER 1973, WHEN NATIONAL LIFE BECAME UNCONTROLLABLE, SEVERAL HOMES WERE RAIDED, AND MANY PEOPLE WERE HARASSED AND KILLED. THE PETITION ALSO REQUESTS CLARIFICATION ON CASES OF PEOPLE WHO INEXPLICABLY HAVE BEEN MISSING SINCE THEIR ARREST FOR REASONS STILL UNKNOWN. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>THROUGH ITS CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS' DEPARTMENT, THE CHILEAN HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITTEE HAS EXPLAINED ITS CONCERN OVER THE USE OF CHILDREN IN PROPAGANDA SPOTS SUPPORTING THE YES-VOTE, WHICH ARE BROADCAST ON TELEVISION. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>THE COMMUNIQUE RELEASED BY THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITTEE ENDS BY URGING THE ADVERTISEMENT PROFESSIONALS WHO CREATED THIS TYPE OF PROPAGANDA TO BE MORE CREATIVE AND POSITIVE INSTEAD OF ADDING HORROR TO THE PAIN OF THE CHILEAN NATION.</p></body></html>