<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0053"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0053"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-11-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="QUITO"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0053</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0053</p><p>QUITO, 27 NOV 88 (VOZ DE LOS ANDES) -- [TEXT] GOVERNMENT MINISTER ANDRES VALLEJO YESTERDAY AGAIN DENIED THE CLAIM OF COMMANDERS JOAQUIN AND JAVIER OF THE ALFARO LIVES DAMMIT SUBVERSIVE GROUP THAT THEY HAVE MET WITH HIM. THE REBEL LEADERS MAINTAIN THEY HAVE MET ON FIVE OCCASIONS WITH THE GOVERNMENT WITHIN A FRAMEWORK OF CONSULTATIONS AND COORDINATION PROPOSED BY PRESIDENT RODRIGO BORJA. ACCORDING TO THEM, ONE OF THE MEETINGS INVOLVED MINISTER VALLEJO HIMSELF, WHO REPORTEDLY INTRODUCED THEM TO A DELEGATE OF PRESIDENT BORJA FOR FURTHER TALKS.</p><p>NEVERTHELESS, VALLEJO DID NOT RULE OUT THE POSSIBILITY OF HOLDING TALKS WITH THE GUERRILLAS TO ACHIEVE PEACE IN THE COUNTRY. FEBRES-CORDERO'S ADMINISTRATION REFUSED TO HOLD TALKS WITH THE ALFARO LIVES DAMMIT AND FREE HOMELAND MONTONERAS GUERRILLA GROUPS BECAUSE IT CONSIDERED THEM TO BE TERRORIST GROUPS; IT ACTUALLY ATTACKED THESE GROUPS TO THE POINT OF ALMOST ELIMINATING THEM.</p><p>VALLEJO POINTED OUT THAT HOLDING TALKS WITH THE GUERRILLAS WOULD BE A POSITIVE STEP. HE RECALLED THAT THE COLOMBIAN ADMINISTRATION OF BELISARIO BETANCUR BEGAN A DIALOGUE WITH GENUINE REVOLUTIONARY ARMIES TO ACHIEVE PEACE IN THAT COUNTRY. HE ASKED: WHY CAN WE NOT HOLD TALKS HERE, WHERE THE GUERRILLAS ARE STILL AT AN EMBRYONIC PHASE?</p><p>THE POSSIBILITY OF GOVERNMENT-GUERRILLAS TALKS HAS BEEN VIEWED DIFFERENTLY. NATIONAL CONGRESS PRESIDENT WILFRIDO LUCERO SAID ON 25 NOVEMBER THAT THE CONGRESS IS NEITHER TASKED NOR EMPOWERED TO HOLD TALKS WITH THE GUERRILLAS. LUCERO REFUSED TO COMMENT ON THE ALLEGED TALKS, SAYING THAT HE HAS RECEIVED NO INFORMATION IN THIS REGARD. HE ADDED: THESE KINDS OF PROBLEMS ARE UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF OTHERS; IT IS NOT A CONCERN OF THE NATIONAL CONGRESS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO JULIO CESAR TRUJILLO, A FORMER PRESIDENT OF POPULAR DEMOCRACY, TALKS WITH GUERRILLAS WOULD BE GOOD FOR THE COUNTRY BECAUSE THEY HAVE USEFUL IDEAS, SOME OF WHICH COULD BE IMPLEMENTED. HE ADDED THAT NOT EVERYTHING ADVOCATED BY THE GUERRILLAS CAN BE CARRIED OUT BECAUSE THERE ARE OBSTACLES FACING THE GOOD OFFICES OF THE CURRENT RULERS.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE SOCIAL CHRISTIAN PARTY OF FORMER PRESIDENT LEON FEBRES-CORDERO EXPRESSED CONCERN OVER THIS POSSIBILITY. IT WILL MEET TOMORROW TO DISCUSS THE TOPIC AND ISSUE AN STATEMENT. MARCO LARA, PRESIDENT OF THAT PARTY AND PUBLIC INFORMATION SECRETARY DURING THE PREVIOUS ADMINISTRATION, REFUSED TO COMMENT ON THIS.</p><p>WHILE IN QUITO [AS HEARD], COMMANDERS JOAQUIN AND JAVIER ARE PROPOSING A BROAD AND DIRECT DIALOGUE WITH RODRIGO BORJA'S REGIME; IN GUAYAQUIL, LEADERS JUAN CUBIA AND EDGAR PRIAS, BOTH IN PRISON, AND PATRICIO BAQUERIZO ARE REJECTING A DEMAND THAT THE MOVEMENT RESPECT THE LAW.</p></body></html>