<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0075"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0075"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-11-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0075</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0075</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 28 NOV 88 (CANAL SEIS TELEVISION) -- [REPORT] [JOEL BURGOS] [TEXT] COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE [CHAIRMAN OF THE SALVADORAN JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF] APPEARED BEFORE THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY TODAY. THE ASSEMBLY OFFERED TO LOOSEN LEGAL [WORD INDISTINCT] ON THE ARMED FORCES TO WIN THE WAR.</p><p>SOME GROUPS BELIEVE THE COUNTRY ENTERED A CRISIS WITH THE 15 OCTOBER 1979 MILITARY COUP. SINCE THEN, EL SALVADOR HAS SUFFERED A CIVIL WAR THAT IS GETTING WORSE AND CAUSING MORE CASUALTIES. THERE ARE NOW TWO DISTURBING CHANGES IN THE WAR: FIRST, CORPSES ARE BEING DUMPED ON THE ROADSIDE, WHICH REMINDS US OF THE EARLY 1980'S WHEN DEATH SQUADS WERE ACTIVE. SECOND, URBAN GUERRILLA ACTIVITY IS INCREASING. THE ARMED FORCES ARE JUSTIFIABLY CONCERNED ABOUT THOSE ISSUES.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PONCE] I NEVER TALK ABOUT DEATH SQUADS. I TALK ABOUT VIOLENCE AND THE ACTIONS OF THE RIGHT- AND LEFT-WING GROUPS. THE ARMY IS DETERMINED, AND IS MAKING ALL THE NECESSARY EFFORTS, TO COUNTER THOSE VIOLENT ACTIONS, REGARDLESS OF WHICH GROUPS CARRY THEM OUT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>COL PONCE MET WITH MEMBERS OF THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY DEFENSE AND PUBLIC SECURITY COMMITTEE TODAY.</p><p>AFTER 8 YEARS, THE WAR SEEMS TO BE ENDLESS. ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] BELIEVES THAT A SOLUTION TO THE CRISIS COULD BE THE FORMATION OF A COMMON FRONT THAT WILL SET UP A NATIONAL STRATEGY AND ALSO LOOSEN LEGAL RESTRICTIONS ON THE ARMED FORCES.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ARENA DEPUTY SIGIFREDO OCHOA] WE MUST SET UP A NATIONAL STRATEGY, BECAUSE WE CANNOT LET THE GUERRILLAS KILL US. I THINK THAT WE MUST ACT WITHIN THE LAW. I THINK WE MUST LOOSEN THE LEGAL RESTRICTIONS ON THE ARMY, BECAUSE THE ARMY CAN BE EFFECTIVE BUT HAS ITS HANDS TIED. [WORDS INDISTINCT] IN ITS OWN COUNTRY, IT HAS BEEN REJECTED FOR HAVING DEFENDED COMMUNIST GUERRILLAS [WORDS INDISTINCT], WHICH IN [WORD INDISTINCT] ITSELF IS CONSIDERED AS [WORDS INDISTINCT]. WE CANNOT UNDERSTAND HOW CAN IT DEFEND A CRIMINAL POSITION. IT IS TIME FOR US TO RALLY AROUND A SINGLE PURPOSE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THERE CAN STILL BE A PEACEFUL SOLUTION TO THE CRISIS. CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY [PDC] PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE FIDEL CHAVEZ MENA SAID HE WILL SEEK A DIALOGUE WITH THE GUERRILLA MOVEMENT. MEANWHILE, ARENA WILL MAKE ITS OWN PROPOSAL TO THE FMLN.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [OCHOA] THE PDC PROMISED TO ACHIEVE PEACE. THAT IS AN ILLUSION. THAT IS WHAT THE PDC CANDIDATE IS PROPOSING. CHAVEZ MENA HAS BEEN IN THE GOVERNMENT FOR YEARS, AND THE GOVERNMENT WILL NOT CHANGE ITS STRATEGY. THAT PROPOSAL IS MERELY A SMOKESCREEN.</p><p>WE HAVE BEEN VERY CLEAR ABOUT THIS. WE MUST SIT DOWN TO TALK WITH THE REBELS WITHIN A STRICT TIME LIMIT AND WITHOUT SO MUCH DEMAGOGY. WE ARE WILLING TO TALK WITH THE FMLN-FDR. WE WANT TO MAKE A PROPOSAL TO THEM--NOT AN ARENA PROPOSAL, BUT A NATIONAL PROPOSAL. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>