<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0079"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0079"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-12-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAVANA"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0079</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0079</p><p>HAVANA, 3 DEC 88 (INTERNATIONAL SERVICE) -- [INTERVIEW WITH FRANCISCO VILLAGRAN, MEMBER OF THE URNG POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC COMMISSION, BY PEDRO MARTINEZ] [TEXT] [MARTINEZ] THERE IS A SUBJECT OF INTEREST TO RADIO HAVANA LISTENERS: THE URNG'S HUMANIZATION OF THE WAR POLICY.</p><p>[VILLAGRAN] RIGHT NOW, THE POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC COMMISSION, ON DIRECTIONS FROM THE URNG GENERAL COMMAND, IS MAKING EVERY EFFORT TO HUMANIZE THE WAR SITUATION IN THE COUNTRY, ESPECIALLY BY SHOWING RESPECT FOR THE GENEVA AGREEMENT, WHICH GUATEMALA SIGNED.</p><p>WE ARE DOING THIS BECAUSE THE REPRESSIVE WAR THE ARMY HAS BEEN WAGING AGAINST THE REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT AND THE POPULATION HAS REACHED LEVELS OF EXTREME CRUELTY, INCLUDING INDISCRIMINATE BOMBINGS AND THE USE OF DEFOLIANTS IN CONFLICT ZONES WHERE CIVILIANS LIVE.</p><p>THERE IS THE PARTICULAR SITUATION IN WHICH NEITHER THE GUATEMALAN ARMY NOR THE GOVERNMENT TAKE ANY WAR PRISONERS. THIS MAKES US BELIEVE THAT THE CRUELTY USED AGAINST CIVILIANS AND PEOPLE INVOLVED IN THE ARMED CONFLICT IS A VIOLATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS.</p><p>[MARTINEZ] DOES THE URNG HAVE ANY PRISONERS AT THIS MOMENT?</p><p>[VILLAGRAN] YES. WE HAVE SENT A NOTE TO THE NATIONAL RECONCILIATION COMMISSION SO IT CAN HANDLE THE CASE OF SOLDIER CARLOS PEREZ LOPEZ, WHO WAS CAPTURED WOUNDED IN THE SAN MARCOS REGION, NEAR GALVEZ. HE HAS BEEN GIVEN MUCH MEDICAL ATTENTION. NOW THAT HE HAS FULLY RECOVERED, WE ARE THINKING ABOUT PUBLICLY RETURNING THIS GUATEMALAN, AND WE ARE ASKING THE RECONCILIATION COMMISSION TO TAKE MEASURES THROUGH THE INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS [IRC] TO RECEIVE THIS MAN IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE HUMANIZATION PROCESS.</p><p>[MARTINEZ] WILL THIS BE THE FIRST TIME THE URNG WILL MAKE THIS KIND OF CONTACT WITH THE IRC?</p><p>[VILLAGRAN] THE IRC HAS HAD LOCALIZATION PROBLEMS. THERE HAS BEEN THE ARGUMENT THAT THERE IS A NATIONAL RED CROSS. CONTACT WITH THE IRC IS POSSIBLE IF THERE IS A PRESENCE OF THIS ORGANIZATION THAT FUNCTIONS BASED ON INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS. NOW THAT THE IRC IS PRESENT, THE WORK IS BEING FACILITATED.</p><p>THE CONTACT WITH THE IRC IS AT THE INITIATION LEVEL. HOWEVER, I BELIEVE THESE CONTACTS WILL BE VERY USEFUL IN THE FUTURE, ESPECIALLY FOR PERSONS NOT INVOLVED IN THE ARMED CONFLICT.</p><p>[MARTINEZ] I THINK IT WOULD BE USEFUL IF WE CLOSE THIS INTERVIEW WITH YOU REPEATING THE NAME OF THE GUATEMALAN ARMY SOLDIER WHO IS BEING HELD BY THE URNG AND WHOM THE GUERRILLA FORCES ARE PREPARED TO TURN OVER TO THE IRC.</p><p>[VILLAGRAN] YES. HIS NAME IS CARLOS LOPEZ PEREZ [AS HEARD].</p><p>[MARTINEZ] THANK YOU, VILLAGRAN.</p></body></html>