<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0050"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0050"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-11-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BERLIN (FRG)"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0050</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0050</p><p>BERLIN (FRG), 6 NOV 88 (ADN/ND) -- [TEXT] AT A NEWS CONFERENCE IN BERLIN ON FRIDAY [4 NOVEMBER], VOLODIA TEITELBOIM, MEMBER OF THE POLITICAL COMMISSION AND SECRETARIAT OF THE PCCH CENTRAL COMMITTEE, GAVE A REPORT ON THE SITUATION IN CHILE FOLLOWING THE REFERENDUM. HE SAID THAT THE PEOPLE'S RESOLUTE "NO" IN THE REFERENDUM ON 5 OCTOBER MUST NOW BE FOLLOWED BY THE OVERTHROW OF PINOCHET AND THE RETURN TO DEMOCRACY. THE FORMER SENATOR SAID THAT THE MOST URGENT CONDITION FOR THE PATH INTO THE FUTURE IS THE CREATION OF A BROAD UNITY OF ALL OPPOSITION FORCES WHICH CAN WIN A VICTORY OVER PINOCHET. HE SAID THAT THE COMMUNIST PARTY ALSO CONSIDERS COOPERATION, IN PARTICULAR WITH THE SOCIALISTS, A DECISIVE STEP.</p><p>HE SAID THAT QUITE A FEW THINGS HAVE CHANGED IN CHILE THROUGH THE BROAD MASS MOVEMENT. HIGH OFFICERS WHO SERVED THE DICTATOR MOST LOYALLY HAVE HAD TO RESIGN NOW UNDER PRESSURE FROM THE DEMOCRATIC PUBLIC. IN ADDITION, IT HAS JUST BEEN REPORTED THAT EL SIGLO, THE COMMUNIST PARTY NEWSPAPER, WILL BE PUBLISHED AGAIN LEGALLY.</p><p>ASKED ABOUT THE PRESENT CONDITIONS OF THE STRUGGLE, TEITELBOIM SAID THAT THE PROGRESSIVE FORCES IN CHILE, WHO HAD TO PAY A HIGH PRICE FOR THEIR RESISTANCE IN THE PINOCHET'S 15-YEAR RULE, CONTINUE TO BE EXPOSED TO PERSECUTION, IMPRISONMENT, AND THREATS OF MURDER. THE COMMUNIST PARTY, WHICH HAS HAD THE LARGEST NUMBER OF CASUALTIES AND MISSING AND TORTURED PEOPLE SINCE THE DICTATORSHIP WAS ESTABLISHED, CONTINUES TO BE BANNED.</p><p>NONETHELESS, THE COUNTRY IS CAUGHT UP IN A WAVE OF MOBILIZATION OF THE PEOPLE. VOLODIA TEITELBOIM CONFIRMED THAT THE COMMUNIST PARTY SUPPORTS THE DEMAND MADE BY THE OPPOSITION ALLIANCE TO HOLD THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS PROMISED BY THE MILITARY JUNTA FOR LATE 1989 AT AN EARLIER DATE, AND TO NOMINATE A COMMON PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE. IN ADDITION, THE CONSTITUTION--ON THE BASIS OF WHICH PINOCHET INTENDS TO CONTINUE IN OFFICE UNTIL MARCH 1990 DESPITE HIS DEFEAT THROUGH THE REFERENDUM--MUST BE ABOLISHED TO ALLOW THE PEOPLE TO DECIDE ON THE COUNTRY'S FUTURE IN FREEDOM.</p><p>VOLODIA TEITELBOIM PAID TRIBUTE TO THE GDR'S CONSISTENT POSITION IN WORD AND DEED AS A GREAT EXAMPLE OF INTERNATIONAL SOLIDARITY WITH THE CHILEAN PEOPLE. HE SAID THAT HUNDREDS OF PATRIOTS FROM HIS COUNTRY HAVE FOUND A TEMPORARY HOME IN THE GDR, WHERE THEY CAN LIVE AND WORK.</p></body></html>