<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0073"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0073"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-10-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0073</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0073</p><p>SANTIAGO, 24 OCT 88 (ANALISIS) -- [ARTICLE] [NELSON SOZA MONTIEL] [TEXT] [CONTINUED]</p><p>THE INFLATION `BOGEYMAN'</p><p>THIS ENTIRE PANORAMA CHANGED WITH THE NO VOTE VICTORY. AND WITH IT CHANGED THE POLICIES AND TOOLS THAT BUCHI'S TEAM WILL HAVE TO RESORT TO UNTIL LATE 1989 AND THAT ARE NOW MUCH MORE DEPENDENT THAN BEFORE ON THE GOVERNMENT'S POLITICAL OBJECTIVES. ONE OPTION IS TO KEEP ON DOING "MORE OF THE SAME," TO IGNORE THE NEW CONTEXT THAT HAS DEVELOPED SINCE 5 OCTOBER, TO DEFUSE THE MONETARY TIME BOMB AND TO APPLY A TIGHT TOURNIQUET TO THE ECONOMY TO PREVENT RENEWED OUTBREAKS OF HIGHER PRICES.</p><p>THE INFLATION "BOGEYMAN" IS BEGINNING TO MAKE HIS PRESENCE FELT (THE CONSUMER PRICE INDEX, CPI, IS EXPECTED TO BE UP 1.3 TO 1.5 PERCENT THIS MONTH), AND EXPLANATIONS ABOUND. GERARDO ACEITUNO, THE HEAD OF THE FORECASTING WORKSHOP OF THE LABOR ECONOMY PROGRAM, ATTRIBUTES THE MOUNTING INFLATIONARY PRESSURES TO THE IMPACT OF THE WAGE HIKE AND HIGHER INTERNATIONAL INTEREST RATES ON DOMESTIC PRICES. HE RECALLS THAT THE PRICES OF FARM PRODUCTS HAVE BEEN "VIRTUALLY FROZEN FOR A YEAR" AND THAT THIS EXPLAINS THE HUGE GAP BETWEEN THE WHOLESALE PRICE INDEX, WHICH FELL ONE PERCENT DURING THE PAST 12 MONTHS, AND THE CPI, WHICH ROSE 12 PERCENT DURING THE SAME PERIOD. "THE SITUATION COULD NOT BE SUSTAINED, EXCEPT IF BUSINESSMEN WANTED TO SACRIFICE THEIR PROFIT MARGINS, WHICH HAVE SO FAR NOT BEEN AFFECTED, BECAUSE THE VAT WAS CUT."</p><p>JUAN VILLARZU, IN CONTRAST, PLACES MOST OF THE BLAME FOR THE INFLATIONARY PRESSURES ON THE EXCESSIVE QUANTITY OF MONEY. ODDLY ENOUGH, HOWEVER, THE UNCERTAINTY THAT DEVELOPED AFTER THE VICTORY OF THE NO VOTE IS PRESUMABLY HAVING AN EFFECT SOMEWHAT SIMILAR TO THE "MINI-ADJUSTMENT." HE REPORTS THAT SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESSMEN ARE POSTPONING THEIR INVESTMENT PLANS, AND THUS THEIR DEMAND FOR CREDIT HAS FALLEN OFF. THE DILEMMA FACING THEM AND OTHER "ECONOMIC AGENTS" IS WHETHER TO SPEND THE MONEY OR TO DEPOSIT IT. THE CENTRAL BANK COMES INTO PLAY HERE, BECAUSE "NOT HAVING TO COMPETE WITH THE BANKS, IT CAN BEGIN SOAKING UP SOME OF THE MONEY IN CIRCULATION WITHOUT BOOSTING INTEREST RATES TOO MUCH. MOREOVER, THEY ARE ALREADY QUITE HIGH: 5 PERCENT FOR 90-DAY OPERATIONS, AS AGAINST 4.2 PERCENT DURING THE FIRST HALF." IN ADDITION, IT COULD RESORT TO ITS SIZABLE MONETARY RESERVES AND "BURN UP" FOREIGN EXCHANGE ON HIGHER IMPORTS TO ABSORB SOME OF THE EXCESS LIQUIDITY. "I'M THINKING ABOUT DEVALUATIONS (OF THE PESO) SOMEWHAT SIMILAR TO THE ONES THIS YEAR."</p><p>OPTIONS AFTER THE NO VICTORY</p><p>IN ANY EVENT, THE LARGE MASS OF MONEY IN CIRCULATION AND THE EXISTING INFLATIONARY PRESSURES (WHATEVER THEIR CAUSE) "CONSTITUTE AN EXPLOSIVE SITUATION," WHICH ACCORDING TO VILLARZU THE GOVERNMENT WILL NOT IGNORE. BECAUSE "IF IT HAS ANY POLITICAL ACCOMPLISHMENT LEFT, IT IS THE VICTORY OVER INFLATION." AND THE TIGHTENING UP WILL BE EVEN MORE SEVERE IF THE FINANCE MINISTER INSISTS ON ACHIEVING A 5-PERCENT RISE IN THE CPI IN 1989, AS THE DRAFT BUDGET SENT TO THE JUNTA CALLS FOR. EVEN THE CENTRAL BANK REGARDS THIS GOAL AS DANGEROUS. A HIGH-LEVEL CENTRAL BANK EXECUTIVE SAID THAT "IT IS VALID TO AIM FOR AN INFLATION RATE LIKE THAT IN THE DEVELOPED COUNTRIES, BUT WE HAVE TO BE CAREFUL BECAUSE UNEMPLOYMENT (WHICH WOULD TRIGGER A HEAVY CONCENTRATION OF SPENDING) REMAINS HIGH."</p><p>ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC CARD ARE THE ALREADY VISIBLE AND STRONG PRESSURES THAT THE RIGHT HAS BEGUN TO APPLY SO THAT THE GOVERNMENT WILL INCREASE SPENDING IN 1989 OR AT LEAST NOT REDUCE IT. THE RIGHT ALSO WANTS THE GOVERNMENT TO TAKE ACTIONS THAT ARE MORE POPULIST IN NATURE OR THAT HAVE LESS VISIBLE EFFECTS ON VOTERS. SIGNIFICANTLY, EXPERTS ON BUCHI'S OWN TEAM ARE THE ONES WHO ARE ADMITTING THAT POLITICAL DEMANDS CAN BE GIVEN TO SOME EXTENT WITHOUT IGNORING CERTAIN PRINCIPLES. GAINING GROUND, AS A RESULT, ARE AN INCREASE IN THE MINIMUM WAGE ("TO PAVE THE WAY FOR HIGHER PAY IN PRIVATE ENTERPRISE") AND FURTHER CUTS IN THE VAT (THE RUMOR OF A CUT TO 12 PERCENT WAS ALREADY MAKING THE ROUNDS BEFORE THE PLEBISCITE) AND IN THE TAX ON CAPITAL. BUT THE PRIVATIZATION OF ENTERPRISES IS STILL STRONGLY SUPPORTED AS WELL. EVERYTHING POINTS IN THE SAME DIRECTION: "REDUCE THE SIZE OF THE PUBLIC AND GOVERNMENT SECTOR AND, AT THE SAME TIME, NARROW THE MANEUVERING ROOM ON TAXES FOR A GOVERNMENT DIFFERENT FROM THIS ONE." IF IT IS SIMILAR, SO MUCH THE BETTER. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>