<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0069"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0069"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-11-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0069</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0069</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 9 NOV 88 (TCS TELEVISION) -- [INTERVIEW WITH DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL CARLOS VIDES CASANOVA BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS]</p><p>[EXCERPTS] [REPORTER] DEAR LISTENERS, THE MINISTER HAS ARRIVED AND WE WELCOME HIM AND THANK HIM FOR HIS PARTICIPATION IN THIS SEGMENT. GOOD MORNING.</p><p>[VIDES] GOOD MORNING.</p><p>[REPORTER] VIOLENCE HAS INCREASED RECENTLY AND THE PEOPLE ARE EXTREMELY WORRIED. WHAT ARE THE ARMED FORCES DOING TO GUARANTEE THE PEOPLE'S WELFARE?</p><p>[VIDES] THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S CONCERN ABOUT INCREASED TERRORIST VIOLENCE IS UNDERSTANDABLE. WE MUST BEAR IN MIND THAT TERRORIST ACTS ALWAYS ESCALATE WHEN IMPORTANT EVENTS ARE EXPECTED. THIS DOES NOT HAPPEN ONLY IN OUR COUNTRY; WE RECENTLY SAW IT IN SEOUL, BEFORE THE OLYMPICS, WHEN GROUPS RESORTED TO VIOLENCE TO PROVOKE THE AUTHORITIES AND PREVENT AN INTERNATIONAL EVENT FROM TAKING PLACE.</p><p>AN OAS MEETING IS SCHEDULED TO TAKE PLACE IN THIS COUNTRY IN A FEW DAYS. THE EVENT IS BEING THREATENED BY A NUMBER OF ACTS, PARTICULARLY TERRORIST ACTS IN THE SAN BENITO, MAX DIAZ, ESCALON, AND SAN FRANCISCO NEIGHBORHOODS. THE TERRORISTS BELIEVE THE PEOPLE WILL PROTEST AGAINST THE OAS MEETING IF THEY CAUSE TERROR IN THOSE AREAS.</p><p>WE ARE EXPECTING FOREIGN MINISTERS FROM LATIN AMERICA, CENTRAL AMERICA, AND THE UNITED STATES, WHOM THE TERRORISTS BELIEVE WILL CALL OFF THE MEETING BECAUSE OF THE SITUATION IN THE COUNTRY. THAT IS THE MAIN REASON FOR THE INCREASED VIOLENCE.</p><p>YOU HAVE SEEN THAT WE HAVE INCREASED PATROL OPERATIONS RECENTLY. PATROLS ARE ALSO BEING CARRIED OUT AROUND THE VOLCANOES NEAR SAN SALVADOR. SECURITY MEASURES ARE ALSO BEING IMPLEMENTED ON THE PERIPHERY OF SAN SALVADOR AND AROUND THE MEETING VENUE, BUT I CANNOT GIVE YOU THE DETAILS. THERE IS ALSO A COMPLETE SECURITY PLAN FOR THE OFFICIALS WHO WILL PARTICIPATE IN THE OAS MEETING.</p><p>WE ARE READY TO REDUCE THE POSSIBILITY OF AN INCIDENT TO A MINIMUM. HOWEVER, I HAVE ALWAYS BEEN HONEST AND I MUST ADMIT THERE IS ALWAYS THE POSSIBILITY OF SABOTAGE OR A TERRORIST ACT. THIS DOES NOT NECESSARILY MEAN THAT IT WILL AFFECT THE SECURITY MEASURES IN THE AREA OF THE MEETING. FOR EXAMPLE, A BLACKOUT CAN BE CAUSED BY CUTTING OFF AN ELECTRIC LINE IN A DISTANT AREA.</p><p>[REPORTER] GENERAL, THE FMLN'S ATTACKS HAVE NOT BEEN SO OVERWHELMING IN THE PAST, YET NOW THOSE ATTACKS ARE ATTAINING CONSIDERABLE MILITARY SUCCESS. DO THE FMLN'S MILITARY ACTIONS MEAN IT IS SUPERIOR TO THE ARMED FORCES?</p><p>[VIDES] WE CANNOT CONCEIVE THEIR MILITARY SUPERIORITY UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES. I HAVE NOTICED THE GUERRILLA LEADERS ARE CURRENTLY VISITING DIFFERENT COUNTRIES, PARTICULARLY THE CONTADORA GROUP MEMBERS. THEY ARE TRYING TO GAIN SUPPORT FOR READING A STATEMENT AT THE OAS MEETING, AND THEY ARE ALSO TRYING TO PRESSURE THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT INTO NEGOTIATING WITH THEM. THIS PROVES THE REBELS HAVE FAILED MILITARILY, AND THAT FAILURE HAS BEEN BROUGHT ABOUT BY OUR LARGE-SCALE OPERATIONS IN NORTHERN CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT AND USULUTAN DEPARTMENT, IN THE EAST OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE REBELS HAVE TRIED TO BRING THE WAR TO URBAN AREAS. HOWEVER, THE PLANS OF SUBVERSIVE GROUPS--I SHOWED YOU THE DOCUMENTS ON THEIR FIRE PLAN IN ANOTHER MEETING--DID NOT INCLUDE THE TYPE OF TERRORIST ACTS THAT WE HAVE SEEN LATELY. INSTEAD, THEY PLANNED A GENERAL UPRISING AND STRIKE BEFORE THE ELECTIONS.</p><p>THIS PROVES, AS I SAID, THAT THE SUBVERSIVES COULD NOT DEVELOP THEIR FIRE PLAN. THEY HAVE CARRIED OUT SEVERAL ACTS BUT THEY HAVE FAILED TO ACHIEVE THE EXPECTED RESULTS. THIS IS LIKE HAVING A CINEMA SHOW A MOVIE EVERY DAY WITH NO-ONE TURNING UP TO SEE IT.</p><p>THE SUBVERSIVES ARE TRYING TO CARRY OUT THIS TYPE OF EVENT RIGHT NOW TO GIVE THE IMPRESSION OF MILITARY STRENGTH, SO THE OAS WILL PASS A RESOLUTION RECOMMENDING NEGOTIATION TO SOLVE THE CONFLICT.</p><p>FURTHERMORE, THE REBELS ARE TRYING TO DISCREDIT THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS AND BOYCOTT OUR NEXT ELECTIONS BECAUSE SOME PEOPLE ARE DEMORALIZED BY TERRORISM AND LACK THE WILL TO PARTICIPATE IN POLITICS, WHICH MAKES THE ELECTION RESULTS UNSATISFACTORY. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>