<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0094"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0094"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-12-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0094</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0094</p><p>LIMA, 20 DEC 88 (EFE) -- [REPORT] [FRANCISCO FIGUEROA] [TEXT] THE PERUVIAN GOVERNING PARTY, APRA, TODAY ENDED A CONFLICTIVE PARTY CONGRESS ON A NOTE OF DEFEAT FOR PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA, AND WITH THE EMERGENCE OF FORMER PRIME MINISTER LUIS ALVA CASTRO AS NEW PARTY LEADER.</p><p>THE APRA CONGRESS ELIMINATED THE POST OF PARTY PRESIDENT, WHICH WAS CREATED FOR ALAN GARCIA IN 1985, CONSOLIDATING HIS POSITION AS PARTY LEADER FOLLOWING A DECISIVE VICTORY IN THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF THAT YEAR.</p><p>ACCORDING TO SOME CRITICS WITHIN THE PARTY, THE PERSONALISM THAT HAD CHARACTERIZED GARCIA'S UNDISPUTED LEADERSHIP SINCE 1982 WAS THUS ENDED.</p><p>LUIS ALVA CASTRO, 46, FORMER PRIME MINISTER AND ECONOMY MINISTER AS WELL AS FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES, WAS ELECTED BY A LARGE MARGIN AS THE NEW SECRETARY GENERAL, A POST WHICH REGAINED THE HIGHEST STATUS IN THE PARTY. ALVA CASTRO CAPITALIZED ON THE INTERNAL DISSIDENCE AND ON THE PARTY'S DISENCHANTMENT WITH ALAN GARCIA AS A RESULT OF THE DETERIORATION OF THE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC SITUATION, WHICH IS CONSIDERED THE WORST CRISIS IN THIS CENTURY AND IS BLAMED ON THE CHIEF OF STATE'S "STUBBORNNESS" IN NOT CHANGING HIS NATIONALISTIC AND POPULIST POLICY LINE."</p><p>THE NEW CADRE ELECTED AT THE 16TH APRA CONGRESS IS IN FAVOR OF A "CHANGE IN ORIENTATION" IN THE PARTY'S MANAGEMENT AND IN THE PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION FOR THE REMAINING 18 MONTHS OF THE APRA'S TERM IN OFFICE. IT IS EXPECTED THAT ALAN GARCIA AND ALVA CASTRO MAY REACH AN AGREEMENT ON THE WAY THE GOVERNMENT SHOULD BE RUN UNTIL 1990, WHEN THE CURRENT PRESIDENTIAL TERM WILL END FOLLOWING NEW GENERAL ELECTIONS.</p><p>GARCIA ALSO LOST THE PRESIDENCY OF THE POLITICAL COMMISSION THAT SETS THE PARTY'S POLITICAL LINE. THIS POST WAS WON BY LUIS ALBERTO SANCHEZ, 88, FIRST VICE PRESIDENT OF THE NATION AND ONE OF THE MAINSPRINGS IN THE CHANGEOVER OPERATION WITHIN THE APRA.</p><p>THE OTHER ELECTIVE POSITIONS WERE FILLED WITH APRA MEMBERS WHO DO NOT FOLLOW GARCIA'S LINE. THUS, THE PRESENCE OF ALAN GARCIA WITHIN THE PARTY WAS REDUCED TO BEING MEMBER OF THE POLITICAL COMMISSION IN HIS CAPACITY AS FORMER PARTY SECRETARY GENERAL.</p><p>TWO DAYS AGO, THE PERUVIAN CHIEF OF STATE RESIGNED THE APRA PRESIDENCY, UPSET OVER CRITICISM DIRECTED AT HIM DURING THE OPENING OF THE PARTY CONGRESS. HE THUS RESPONDED TO OBVIOUS SIGNS THAT THE PARTY PRESIDENT POST WOULD BE ELIMINATED.</p><p>THE APRA HAD THOUGHT ALAN GARCIA WOULD BE A VERY CAPABLE HEIR TO VICTOR RAUL HAYA DE LA TORRE, THE PARTY'S FOUNDER AND HISTORICAL LEADER, WHO DIED IN 1979. THREE AND ONE-HALF YEARS AFTER GARCIA'S ELECTION VICTORY, THE PARTY DISQUALIFIED GARCIA FOR THE ROLE OF HAYA DE LA TORRE'S SUCCESSOR BECAUSE OF HIS ERRORS AND HIS FAILURE TO RECTIFY HIS GOVERNMENT LINE.</p><p>FOLLOWING THE TRADITION INITIATED BY ALAN GARCIA, NEW APRA LEADER LUIS ALVA CASTRO WILL BE SWORN IN AS SECRETARY GENERAL THIS COMING FRIDAY BEFORE THE TOMB OF HAYA DE LA TORRE IN THE NORTHERN CITY OF TRUJILLO, THE APRA'S MAIN BASTION.</p><p>THE ECONOMIC CRISIS, MARKED BY 2,000-PERCENT INFLATION AND A 20-PERCENT RECESSION FROM OCTOBER 1987 TO OCTOBER 1988, IS COMPOUNDED BY SOCIAL INSTABILITY AND POLITICAL VIOLENCE, WITH KILLINGS AVERAGING FOUR PER DAY.</p><p>AN INTERNAL POLITICAL STORM HIT THE APRA 16TH NATIONAL CONGRESS, AND VICE PRESIDENT SANCHEZ SAID THAT HE CANNOT RECALL ANYTHING SIMILAR.</p><p>DURING THE LAST SESSION OF THE CONGRESS, THREE YOUTHS WERE INJURED IN A MELEE AMONG APRA PEOPLE. OTHER PARTY MEMBERS WERE HIT ON THE HEAD WITH HANDGUN BUTTS, AND THREE NEWSMEN--WHO HAD NOT BEEN ALLOWED TO ATTEND THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE CONGRESS--WERE ATTACKED.</p></body></html>