<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0039"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0039"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-10-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0039</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0039</p><p>BOGOTA, 17 OCT 88 (DPA) -- [TEXT] THE LEFTIST NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (ELN) KIDNAPPED TWO SOLDIERS IN NORTHERN COLOMBIA IN THE PAST FEW HOURS. THIS BRINGS TO 24 THE NUMBER OF MILITARY MEN HELD BY REBELS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO 2D BRIGADE COMMANDER GENERAL JUAN SALCEDO LORA, THE SOLDIERS ARE ARTILLERY BATTALION MEMBERS AND WERE KIDNAPPED WHILE WORKING ON A HIGHWAY IN POPONTE, IN THE NORTHERN CESAR DEPARTMENT.</p><p>MEANWHILE, AN OFFICER AND FOUR POLICEMEN ARE EXPECTED TO BE RELEASED IN THE NEXT FEW HOURS. THE FARC KIDNAPPED THESE MEN 6 WEEKS AGO WHEN THE REBELS ATTACKED MINCA IN THE SIERRA NEVADA DE SANTA MARTA AREA.</p><p>AN OFFICIAL COMMITTEE, FORMED BY GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS FROM THE NATIONAL REHABILITATION PLAN AND THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE AND MEMBERS OF THE "DEMOCRATIC COEXISTENCE COMMISSION"--A MULTIPARTY ORGANIZATION THAT SEARCHES FOR POLITICAL SOLUTIONS TO COLOMBIA'S PROBLEMS--WAS CONTACTING THE REBELS TODAY TO WORK OUT THE FINAL DETAILS OF THE FIVE MILITARY MEN'S RELEASE.</p><p>THE REMAINING 17 POLICEMEN--TAKEN BY THE REBELS DURING AN ATTACK ON NORTHERN SAN PABLO MUNICIPALITY ON 5 OCTOBER--ARE STILL HELD BY THE REBELS. TALKS FOR THEIR RELEASE HAVE NOT MOVED FORWARD BECAUSE THE ARMY REFUSES TO ACCEPT THIRD PARTIES AS MEDIATORS.</p></body></html>