<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0074"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0074"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-11-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0074</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0074</p><p>BOGOTA, 3 NOV 88 (EL TIEMPO) -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED]</p><p>THE GUERRILLAS TURN TERRORIST</p><p>THE PRESIDENT OF PATRIOTIC UNION, BERNARDO JARAMILLO OSSA, FEELS THAT THE SANCTION IMPOSED ON THE TWO URABA UNIONS LAST WEEK WAS UNFAIR BECAUSE HE BELIEVES THAT THE STRUGGLE OF THE WORKERS HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH THE PHENOMENON OF VIOLENCE IN THE ZONE.</p><p>JARAMILLO ACKNOWLEDGED, HOWEVER, THAT THE GUERRILLA GROUPS IN URABA HAVE SHIFTED FROM SUBVERSION TO ABSURD ACTS OF TERRORISM AND VANDALISM THAT CANNOT BE COMPARED TO ACTS ANYWHERE ELSE IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE LEFTIST LEADER DESCRIBED THIS TERRORIST ESCALADE AS ONE OF THE MAJOR OBSTACLES TO THE REGION'S ACHIEVING THE SOCIAL PACT THAT IT URGENTLY NEEDS.</p><p>THE CONGRESSMAN FELT THAT THE SHUTDOWN OF THE UNIONS HAS DEPRIVED THEM OF SPOKESMEN AND HE RECALLED THAT URABA HAS ACHIEVED ITS WEALTH THROUGH PRIVATE ENTERPRISE, WITHOUT THE SLIGHTEST GOVERNMENT INVOLVEMENT.</p><p>MORE SELF-CRITICISM</p><p>SENATOR ALBERTO ROJAS PUYO, ONE OF THE PATRIOTIC UNION CONGRESSMEN, CONTENDED YESTERDAY THAT THE RESIGNATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE CUT, JORGE CARRILLO, OUGHT TO HELP PROMPT THE LEFT TO MAKE A SERIES OF RECTIFICATIONS.</p><p>ROJAS SAID: "JORGE CARRILLO'S LETTER OF RESIGNATION AS PRESIDENT OF THE CUT CONTAINS VERY IMPORTANT PROPOSALS NOT ONLY FOR THE ORGANIZATION BUT ALSO FOR ALL DEMOCRATIC FORCES. I AM GLAD THAT HIS RESIGNATION WAS NOT ACCEPTED AND I SEE IN THIS DEVELOPMENT THE POSSIBILITY THAT THE FORCES OF THE LEFT WILL BEGIN A SERIOUS PROCESS OF REFLECTION AND NECESSARY RECTIFICATION SO THAT THEIR STRUGGLES ARE UNDERSTOOD AND TAKEN UP BY THE WORKING CLASS AND THE PEOPLE AT LARGE.</p><p>"SOME OF CARRILLO'S PROPOSALS ARE, WITHOUT DOUBT, DEBATABLE, BUT THE INDISCRIMINATE MIX OF ACTIONS IS UNQUESTIONABLY DOING GREAT DAMAGE TO THE COUNTRY AND, MOST OF ALL, TO THE LEFT. A CLEAR LINE MUST BE DRAWN IN WORD AND IN DEED WITH RESPECT TO VIOLENCE. THE FACT THAT SUCH CRUCIAL ASPECTS FOR COLOMBIA'S DEMOCRATIC DEVELOPMENT WERE DEBATED WITHIN A MAJOR LABOR FEDERATION SHOWS THAT THIS CLASS CAN PLAY A GUIDING ROLE FOR THE PEOPLE AT LARGE.</p><p>"THE IMPORTANT THING IS THAT ALONG WITH THE NECESSARY REFORMS, THE UNITY OF THE FEDERATION AND ITS CAPACITY FOR ALLIANCES AND GRASSROOTS MOBILIZATION EMERGE STRENGTHENED."</p></body></html>