<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0093"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0093"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-12-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0093</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0093</p><p>BOGOTA, 14 DEC 88 (LA PRENSA) -- [COMMUNIQUE FROM THE FARC TO PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO] [TEXT] IN THE LAST FEW DAYS OF THIS YEAR, THE NATION HAS BEEN DISCUSSING PEACE IN A WAY SELDOM HEARD OF BEFORE. ALL COLOMBIANS, INCLUDING ILLUSTRIOUS FORMER PRESIDENTS, THE MEDIA, THE CATHOLIC CHURCH, POLITICAL PARTIES, THE REBELS, AND THE NATION AT LARGE, HAVE BEEN VOICING THEIR STRONG DESIRE FOR RECONCILIATION IN THE HOMELAND.</p><p>WE REBELS HAVE ALWAYS REGARDED PEACE HIGHLY. THIS IS WHY WE HAVE ALWAYS CLEARLY REITERATED THIS IDEA. TO SET THE PROPER FRAME OF MIND, WE WILL RECALL WHAT WAS SAID IN THE LA URIBE AGREEMENT ON 28 MARCH 1984:</p><p>"TO ENSURE PEACE IN THE NATION--WHICH IS AN ESSENTIAL PREREQUISITE FOR THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE'S PROSPERITY--AND SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT BASED ON LIBERTY AND JUSTICE, THE FOLLOWING IS HEREBY AGREED UPON.</p><p>"1. THE FARC AND EP [POOR PEOPLE'S ARMY] WILL ORDER A CEASE-FIRE AND THE SUSPENSION OF ALL MILITARY OPERATIONS IN ALL FRONTS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY AS OF 0000 ON 28 MAY 1984.</p><p>"2. THE FARC AND EP WILL AGAIN CONDEMN AND NOT ALLOW KIDNAPPINGS, EXTORTION, AND TERRORISM IN ALL THEIR FORMS. FARC-EP WILL HELP ELIMINATE THESE PRACTICES BECAUSE THEY ARE AN ATTACK ON LIBERTY AND HUMAN DIGNITY."</p><p>IN ADDITION, THE M-19 AND EPL [PEOPLE'S LIBERATION ARMY] REACHED THE FOLLOWING AGREEMENT WITH THE GOVERNMENT: "... WE BELIEVE THE CESSATION OF ARMED CLASHES BETWEEN GOVERNMENT FORCES AND THE REBELS IS AN ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENT TO LAY THE GROUNDWORK FOR THE POLITICAL, ECONOMIC, AND SOCIAL REFORMS THAT THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE NEED AND DESIRE. TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THE HIGHEST INTERESTS OF THE HOMELAND, THE GOVERNMENT AND THE REBELS HAVE REACHED THE FOLLOWING AGREEMENT: THE NEGOTIATION AND DIALOGUE COMMISSION, THE EPL GENERAL COMMAND, AND THE M-19 HIGH COMMAND HAVE AGREED ON A CEASE-FIRE. ONCE THIS IS CARRIED OUT, A GREAT NATIONAL DIALOGUE WILL BEGIN, DEVELOP, AND CONCLUDE. THROUGH THIS DIALOGUE, ALL SOCIAL AND POLITICAL SECTORS WILL BE ABLE TO EXPRESS THEIR WILLINGNESS TO SEARCH FOR PEACE BASED ON SOCIAL JUSTICE.</p><p>"CONSEQUENTLY, THE EPL GENERAL COMMAND AND THE M-19 HIGH COMMAND HEREBY ORDER ALL FRONTS, COLUMNS, AND UNITS TO CEASE FIRING AND SUSPEND ALL MILITARY OPERATIONS AS OF 1300 ON 30 AUGUST."</p><p>THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER OF THESE ACCORDS IS NOW WORTH CONSIDERING. THERE WAS A TIME WHEN COLOMBIANS SAID THESE ACCORDS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE REBELS HAD BECOME THE COUNTRY'S NEW POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY.</p><p>THIS IS NOT THE TIME FOR USELESS RECRIMINATIONS, BUT FOR A SERIOUS EFFORT TO DETERMINE WHO IS TO BLAME BECAUSE THE ACCORDS WENT PARTIALLY UNFULFILLED. ANYWAY, CONSIDERING THESE ACCORDS WILL NOT HARM THE GOVERNMENT'S POLICY. WE HEREBY REAFFIRM OUR WILLINGNESS TO TALK WITH YOUR GOVERNMENT TO FIND A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE COUNTRY'S PROBLEMS. THIS WILLINGNESS TO TALK IS SHARED BY ALL OF THE MEMBERS OF THE SIMON BOLIVAR GUERRILLA COORDINATING BOARD AND IS PART OF THE CONCLUSIONS REACHED BY THREE GUERRILLA SUMMIT MEETINGS.</p><p>WE FULLY AGREE WITH THE PEACE PROPOSAL PRESENTED BY SENATOR ALBERTO LEYVA DURAN. WE FIND IT CLEAR, SIMPLE, UNDERSTANDABLE, AND COMPLETE. THIS IS WHY WE WROTE THIS LETTER, MADE OUR LATEST STATEMENTS, AND HAVE GIVEN INSTRUCTIONS FOR A UNILATERAL CEASE-FIRE AS THE BEST CHRISTMAS GIFT FOR OUR PEOPLE.</p><p>[SIGNED] MANUEL MARULANDA VELEZ, JACOBO ARENAS, ALFONSO CANO, RAUL REYES, TIMOLEON JIMENEZ</p><p>FARC GENERAL STAFF, SIMON BOLIVAR GUERRILLA COORDINATING BOARD</p></body></html>