<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0078"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0078"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-12-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0078</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0078</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 5 DEC 88 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [TEXT] THE ARMY HAS REPORTED THAT IT INFLICTED 208 GUERRILLA CASUALTIES DURING CLASHES IN NOVEMBER. MEANWHILE, THE FMLN REBELS HAVE SAID THEY INFLICTED 991 CASUALTIES ON THE ARMY--INCLUDING DEAD AND WOUNDED--AS A RESULT OF THEIR ATTACKS, HARASSMENT, AND AMBUSHES DURING THE SAME PERIOD.</p><p>THE MILITARY REPORT SAYS 93 FMLN GUERRILLAS WERE KILLED AND 115 WOUNDED AS A RESULT OF NATIONWIDE COUNTERINSURGENCY MILITARY OPERATIONS DURING THE MONTH OF NOVEMBER.</p><p>THE REPORT ADDED THAT DURING THE SAME PERIOD, THE ARMY CONFISCATED 105 HIGH-CALIBER RIFLES, 2 M-60 MACHINEGUNS, 20 REVOLVERS OF VARIOUS CALIBERS, MORE THAN 55,000 CARTRIDGES, 168 FRAGMENTATION GRENADES, 236 MINES, 9 COMMUNICATION RADIOS, AND A LARGE AMOUNT OF MATERIAL FOR HOMEMADE BOMBS.</p><p>THE MILITARY REPORT ADDED THAT DURING THE MONTH OF NOVEMBER, GUERRILLAS KILLED 43 PEASANTS, KIDNAPPED 32, AND CAUSED THE DEATH OF 6 PEOPLE AND CRIPPLED 23 OTHERS AS A RESULT OF MINE EXPLOSIONS.</p><p>IN THE WAR AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY--THE PILLAR OF A WAR ECONOMY--THE MILITARY SOURCE REPORTED THAT SIX MAYORIAL OFFICES AND SIX NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFICES WERE DAMAGED IN VARIOUS TOWNS AND SIX JUNCTION BOXES WERE SABOTAGED.</p><p>IN ADDITION, 4 TRAINS BELONGING TO THE SALVADORAN NATIONAL RAILROAD, FENADESAL, WERE BLOWN UP, AND 10 VEHICLES AND 5 BUSES WERE PARTIALLY DAMAGED.</p><p>REGARDING DAMAGE TO THE ELECTRICITY SYSTEM, THE FMLN KNOCKED DOWN 46 TOWERS AND 136 HIGH-TENSION POWER POLES AND DAMAGED 11 TRANSFORMERS.</p></body></html>