<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0064"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0064"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-11-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0064</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0064</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 4 NOV 88 (RADIO CADENA SONORA) -- [INTERVIEW WITH NATIONAL POLICE DIRECTOR COLONEL CARLOS MAURICIO GUZMAN AGUILAR AT NATIONAL POLICE HEADQUARTERS, SAN SALVADOR, BY AN UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [EXCERPTS] [BEGIN RECORDING] [GUZMAN] I HAVE BEEN WORKING JOINTLY WITH THE ARMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF--NOT JUST THIS WEEK BUT FOR SEVERAL MONTHS. I HAVE TO ADD THAT NOT ONLY THE NATIONAL POLICE ARE INVOLVED, BUT THE PUBLIC SECURITY FORCES AND THE MILITARY CORPS STATIONED HERE IN SAN SALVADOR. WE HAVE REINFORCEMENTS FROM THE COUNTRYSIDE AND ARE WORKING ON A JOINT PLAN TO HELP MINIMIZE TERRORIST ATTACKS THAT THEY WILL TRY TO CARRY OUT AND ARE CARRYING OUT AT THIS VERY MOMENT.</p><p>JUST TO GIVE YOU AN EXAMPLE, RIGHT NOW WE ARE WAITING FOR A DEMONSTRATION THAT IS TO BEGIN AT THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY. THERE WILL BE STUDENTS TOGETHER WITH UNTS [NATIONAL UNION OF SALVADORAN WORKERS] MEMBERS, WHO ARE GOING TO MARCH THEIR USUAL ROUTE AND END UP AT THE PARK ACROSS FROM THE CATHEDRAL.</p><p>I WANT TO TELL YOU THAT THEY ARE NOT GOING TO HAVE ANY PROBLEMS AS LONG AS THEY OBEY THE LAW. AS I SAID A FEW DAYS AGO, WE DO NOT WANT CONFRONTATIONS WITH ANYONE. WHAT THEY WANT IS TO CONFRONT POLICE AND PUBLIC SECURITY FORCES FOR THE SAKE OF CREATING A MARTYR, AND WE ARE UNWILLING TO OBLIGE THEM IN THIS ENDEAVOR. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>[REPORTER] THE ATTACK AGAINST THE NATIONAL GUARD SEEMS LIKE A CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE SECURITY CORPS. WE WOULD LIKE TO KNOW IF THE NATIONAL POLICE ARE ON ALERT FOR AN ATTACK IN VIEW OF THE ATTACKS AGAINST THE NATIONAL GUARD AND THE TREASURY POLICE?</p><p>[GUZMAN] AS I SAID BEFORE, THIS IS NOT NEW FOR US, AND WE ARE MAKING PLANS. YOU NOTICE THAT THE GENERAL HEADQUARTERS IS CLOSE TO HOMES. WE HAVE ALREADY SEEN IN USULUTAN AND IN SAN FRANCISCO MORAZAN WHERE THESE PEOPLE ATTACKED WITHOUT CARING WHETHER THEY DESTROYED PRIVATE PROPERTY OR HOMES--EVEN KILLING INNOCENT CIVILIANS. WE ARE NOT EXEMPT FROM THIS HERE. WE HAVE A STRATEGY. WE EVEN BELIEVE THERE IS A POSSIBILITY OF AN ATTACK FROM INSIDE THE GENERAL HEADQUARTERS--IT IS VERY POSSIBLE, THEY HAVE DONE IT BEFORE. I REMEMBER WHEN THEY BOMBED THE SERVICE STATION HERE, DESTROYING THREE OR FOUR VEHICLES, AND THEY ALSO PLACED BOMBS INSIDE THE GENERAL DIRECTORATE OFFICE. WE ARE DOING ALL WE CAN TO TRY TO AVOID THESE PROBLEMS. WE ARE READY TO FACE ANY SITUATION. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT PLANS HAVE YOU MADE FOR THE UPCOMING OAS GENERAL MEETING, AND WHAT SECURITY RESPONSIBILITIES WILL THE NATIONAL POLICE HAVE IN REGARD TO THIS MEETING?</p><p>[GUZMAN] YOU MUST UNDERSTAND THESE ARE MAINLY MILITARY PLANS WHICH WE CANNOT VERY WELL DISCLOSE IN ADVANCE. IF I STARTED GIVING OUT THIS INFORMATION, I WOULD BE EXPOSING OUR SECURITY OPERATION FOR THE MEETING. ALL I CAN SAY IS THAT WE ARE TAKING THIS SITUATION VERY SERIOUSLY. WE HAVE REINFORCEMENTS FROM THE COUNTRYSIDE. NOT ONLY IS THE NATIONAL POLICE INVOLVED, BUT THE PUBLIC SECURITY CORPS, AS WELL AS OTHER UNITS THAT HAVE COME FROM THE COUNTRYSIDE TO SUPPORT THIS COMMON EFFORT. [PASSAGE OMITTED] [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>