<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0017"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0017"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-09-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0017</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0017</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 17 SEP 88 (DIARIO LATINO) -- [TEXT] IN RECENT MILITARY OPERATIONS, ARMED FORCES UNITS KILLED ONE REBEL, SEIZED 45,000 CARTRIDGES AND OTHER WAR MATERIEL, AND DESTROYED AN UNDERGROUND HIDEOUT.</p><p>THE TERRORIST DIED IN A CLASH WITH 6TH INFANTRY BRIGADE UNITS. THE SOLDIERS HAD DETECTED AN FMLN COLUMN DEPLOYING NEAR LA ARANA HILL IN ESTANZUELAS, USULUTAN DEPARTMENT.</p><p>THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE ALSO REPORTED THAT LIBERTAD BATTALION TROOPS FOUND AN UNDERGROUND WAREHOUSE NEAR THE EL CASTANO FARM IN NEJAPA, NORTH OF SAN SALVADOR. IN THE WAREHOUSE, THE BRIGADE UNITS FOUND 45,000 CARTRIDGES OF VARIOUS CALIBERS AND A LARGE AMOUNT OF MATERIAL FOR MANUFACTURING EXPLOSIVES.</p><p>IN ADDITION, ATLACATL BATTALION COUNTERINSURGENCY UNITS RECENTLY SEIZED 15 FRAGMENTATION GRENADES, 5 CLAYMORE MINES, 5 BOOBY TRAPS, 10 UNITS OF TNT, LOADED CARTRIDGE CLIPS, AND 7 KNAPSACKS CONTAINING CIVILIAN CLOTHING, OLIVE-GREEN UNIFORMS, AND COMMUNIST PROPAGANDA. THESE ITEMS WERE APPARENTLY LEFT BEHIND BY WOUNDED REBELS WHO MANAGED TO FLEE AFTER A CLASH WITH THE BATTALION MEMBERS AT THE FOOT OF EL CHINO HILL IN SAN FRANCISCO MORAZAN, CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT.</p><p>FURTHERMORE, 2D INFANTRY BRIGADE UNITS PATROLLING THE ZONE OF EL RODEO IN EL CONGO, SANTA ANA DEPARTMENT, DISCOVERED A 200-METER UNDERGROUND HIDEOUT BIG ENOUGH TO CONCEAL AT LEAST 250 INSURGENTS. THE BRIGADE UNITS PROCEEDED TO DESTROY THE HIDEOUT.</p></body></html>