<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0005"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0005"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-08-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0005</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0005</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 26 AUG 88 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] AMINTA PLATERO WAS KILLED WHEN HER CAR WAS HIT BY ANOTHER CAR DRIVEN BY FORMER DEPUTY PUBLIC SECURITY MINISTER RINALDO GOLCHER. AT THE TIME OF THE ACCIDENT, GOLCHER WAS ACCOMPANIED BY U.S. MILITARY ATTACHE ANGEL MENENDEZ. THE INCIDENT OCCURRED AT 0100 ON 26 AUGUST AT THE INTERSECTION OF WEST 1ST STREET AND NORTH 51ST AVENUE. COL GOLCHER WAS SUPPOSEDLY IN ISRAEL WHERE HE WAS SENT AS THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT'S MILITARY ATTACHE; HOWEVER, THE WELL-KNOWN LEADER OF THE DEATH SQUADS WAS SEEN AT 0100 IN DOWNTOWN SAN SALVADOR ACCOMPANIED BY NONE OTHER THAN THE U.S. MILITARY REPRESENTATIVE IN OUR COUNTRY. THIS HAPPENED ONLY HOURS AFTER COLONEL [ADOLFO ARNOLDO] MAJANO'S BODYGUARDS WERE MURDERED.</p><p>THE CIRCUMSTANCES SURROUNDING THIS INCIDENT RAISE SEVERAL QUESTIONS. WHAT WERE THESE TWO SOLDIERS DOING AT 0100? WHERE WERE GOLCHER'S BODYGUARDS? WHERE WERE HIS COMPANION'S BODYGUARDS? THE TWO MEN WERE PROBABLY RETURNING FROM A CORRUPTION CENTER, A NIGHT CLUB--ONE OF THOSE EXCLUSIVE CLUBS WHERE THE U.S. ADVISERS AND OTHER U.S. AND SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS SPEND THE DOLLARS THEY STEAL FROM THE FUNDS ALLOTTED TO EL SALVADOR AND WHERE THEY PLAN CRIMES AGAINST THE PEOPLE.</p><p>MUCH MORE COULD BE SAID; HOWEVER, THE TRUTH IS THAT THE INCIDENT WAS NO MERE ACCIDENT. MRS PLATERO IS ANOTHER VICTIM OF THE MADNESS AFFECTING AN ARMY DIRECTED BY U.S. ADVISERS. THERE IS NOT MUCH DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THIS INCIDENT AND THE HURLING OF A GRENADE BY A SOLDIER DRIVEN CRAZY BY THE PSYCHOLOGICAL TERRORISM PRACTICED BY THE ARMY ADVISERS AND CHIEFS. THERE IS NO DOUBT IN OUR MINDS THAT GOLCHER WILL NOT BE TRIED FOR THIS NEW CRIME, JUST AS HE HAS NOT BEEN TRIED FOR THE MANY CRIMES HE HAS BEEN RESPONSIBLE FOR AS CHIEF OF THE REPRESSIVE CORPS AND DEATH SQUADS.</p></body></html>