<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0065"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0065"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-11-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEMUCO"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0065</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0065</p><p>TEMUCO, 4 NOV 88 (SANTIAGO RADIO CHILENA NETWORK) -- [TEXT] THE FIVE INDIVIDUALS WHO WERE DETAINED IN THE MOUNTAINOUS REGION OF COCOAN AND ARE ACCUSED OF BELONGING TO THE MANUEL RODRIGUEZ PATRIOTIC FRONT [FPMR] TERRORIST ORGANIZATION ARE BEING HELD INCOMMUNICADO AT THE SOCIAL REHABILITATION CENTER.</p><p>THE MILITARY PROSECUTOR OF CAUTIN, RODOLFO CALSEN, HAS 5 DAYS, BEGINNING TODAY, TO BRING CHARGES AGAINST THEM, AND TO EITHER CONDEMN OR RELEASE THEM FOR LACK OF EVIDENCE.</p><p>THE DETAINEES, AS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED, HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED AS MAXIMILIANO RIVERA, 31; ALDO ESTEBAN MUTARELO, 30; AND A WOMAN IDENTIFIED AS ANGELICA HUERTA HUERTA, 26. THEY WERE ALL DETAINED IN THE CATRIPULLI SECTOR, SOME 30 KM FROM PUCON, TOWARD THE MOUNTAINS. TWO M-16 RIFLES WERE FOUND ON THESE INDIVIDUALS, ALONG WITH AMMUNITION, EXPLOSIVES, AND SUBVERSIVE MATERIAL.</p><p>TWO OTHER PEOPLE WERE LATER ARRESTED. THEY WERE IDENTIFIED AS ADOLFO MAS STILMAN FLORES, 29, AND ARNALDO RIVERA. NO WEAPONS WERE FOUND ON THEM.</p><p>THESE DETAINTIONS WERE CARRIED OUT LAST MONDAY, 31 OCTOBER, BUT THE REPORT WAS RELEASED TO THE COMMUNICATIONS MEDIA ONLY YESTERDAY AFTERNOON [3 NOV]. THE DETAINEES ARE REPORTEDLY BEING HELD INCOMMUNICADO WHILE AWAITING A RESOLUTION. IF THE DEADLINE IS NOT EXTENDED, WE WILL HAVE SOME NEWS TOMORROW ON WHETHER THEY WILL BE SUBMITTED TO TRIAL OR BE ACQUITTED FOR LACK OF EVIDENCE.</p></body></html>