<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0070"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0070"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-11-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0070</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0070</p><p>LIMA, 10 NOV 88 (EFE) -- [TEXT] LEGISLATIVE SOURCES REPORTED IN LIMA TODAY THAT THE PERUVIAN CONGRESS HAS APPROVED A BILL ESTABLISHING MORE SEVERE PENALTIES FOR TERRORISTS AND ALSO ESTABLISHING PUNISHMENTS FOR THE SUPPORT OF TERRORIST ACTS.</p><p>THE BILL, WHICH WAS DISCUSSED IN THE CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES AND THE SENATE, ESTABLISHES PRISON TERMS RANGING FROM 10 TO 20 YEARS. IT WAS IMMEDIATELY SENT TO THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH FOR PROMULGATION.</p><p>THE BILL WAS APPROVED 3 MONTHS AFTER PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA PRESENTED IT TO CONGRESS ON 28 JULY, WHEN GARCIA COMPLETED THE 3D YEAR OF A 5-YEAR TERM OF OFFICE WHICH BEGAN IN 1985.</p><p>THE PROVISIONS APPROVED BY CONGRESS AMEND 6 ARTICLES IN SECTION 8, VOLUME 2 OF THE PERUVIAN PENAL CODE, ADDING MORE SEVERE SENTENCES AND THE MEANS FOR EXPANDING COURT ACTIONS AGAINST SUBVERSION.</p><p>A PRISON TERM OF 20 YEARS OR MORE WILL BE IMPOSED ON THOSE WHO CAUSE ANXIETY, ALARM, OR TERROR AMONG THE POPULATION OR ANY PART OF IT, ACTS AGAINST A PERSON'S LIFE OR HEALTH, OR ACTS AGAINST PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY IF SUCH ACTS IMPAIR THE COMMUNITY'S BASIC SERVICES.</p><p>IN ALL CASES, THE INSTIGATORS OR MASTERMINDS, THE PRINCIPALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE, AND THE ACCOMPLICES WILL RECEIVE THE SAME SENTENCES AS THE PERPETRATORS.</p><p>MORE SEVERE SENTENCES HAVE ALSO BEEN ESTABLISHED FOR CASES IN WHICH A PERPETRATOR BELONGS TO AN ORGANIZATION THAT USES TERRORISM AS A MEANS TO ACHIEVE ITS GOALS, INCLUDING THE MAOIST "SHINING PATH" ORGANIZATION AND THE MRTA.</p><p>SUPPORTING, APPROVING, OR PRAISING TERRORIST ACTS CAN BE PUNISHED WITH PRISON TERMS OF 5 YEARS OR MORE, AND A 5-YEAR PRISON TERM HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED FOR THE CRIME OF MAKING, PURCHASING, STEALING, OR STORING WEAPONS OR EXPLOSIVES FOR THE PURPOSE OF TERRORISM.</p><p>MORE THAN 12,000 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KILLED IN PERU IN SUBVERSIVE AND ANTI-SUBVERSIVE ACTIONS SINCE THE "SHINING PATH" ORGANIZATION BEGAN ITS ARMED STRUGGLE IN 1980. MORE THAN $10 BILLION IN MATERIAL LOSSES HAVE BEEN REGISTERED AS WELL.</p></body></html>