<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0089"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0089"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-11-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0089</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0089</p><p>SANTIAGO, 10 NOV 88 (QUE PASA) -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED]</p><p>VARYING INTENTIONS</p><p>THE PROGRAM FOR LEGAL ACTION CERTAINLY RAISES DIFFERENT EXPECTATIONS AMONG THE PARTNERS IN IU. THERE HAS BEEN TALK ABOUT THAT IN RECENT DAYS. ALL INDICATIONS ARE, INDEED, THAT BECAUSE TIME IS RUNNING SHORT THEY WILL START UP WITHOUT MUCH CIRCUMSPECTION. TO PUT IT MORE CLEARLY, THE PRESUMPTION IS THAT THEY WILL WAIT UNTIL THINGS ARE UNDER WAY BEFORE TRYING TO PUT THEIR OWN MARK ON THE NEWBORN.</p><p>CHRISTIAN LEFT [IC] WAS THE FIRST TO GIVE THIS SIGNAL. THE RESOLUTIONS OF ITS PLENUM, MADE PUBLIC ON 28 OCTOBER, CLEARLY REVEALED THAT IT INTENDED TO UNIFY THE ENTIRE LEFT IN THE FORMATION OF THE NEW POLITICAL ENTITY. IN PASSING, THEY SENT A MESSAGE TO THEIR MEN WHO WERE INVOLVED IN THE PPD [PARTY FOR DEMOCRACY]: THEY HAVE TO DECIDE BETWEEN MEMBERSHIP IN ONE OR THE OTHER, BUT NOT BOTH. THIS IS SOMETHING THAT MAPU [UNITED POPULAR ACTION MOVEMENT]-BARRUETO IS NOT ADDRESSING WITH THE SAME EARNESTNESS. THEY APPARENTLY SEEK TO TAKE PART IN EVERY GROUP THERE IS, WHETHER IT IS CALLED THE PPD, COSONO [SOCIALIST COMMAND FOR THE NO] OR LEFTIST PARTY.</p><p>THE CHRISTIAN LEFT PEOPLE WENT EVEN FURTHER. AT NO TIME DID THEY CONCEAL THEIR WISH THAT LUIS MAIRA PRESIDE OVER THE NEW PARTY.</p><p>THE PLENUM OF THE SOCIALIST PARTY [PS]-ALMEYDA WAS, OF COURSE, THE MOST EAGERLY ANTICIPATED. AS ON OTHER OCCASIONS, IT WAS SUPPOSED TO SET THE TONE FOR THE JOCKEYING BY THE LEFT. THEY AMBITIOUSLY FELT THAT THIS WAS THE OPPORTUNITY TO REMOVE SOME STRATEGIC OBSTACLES, SORT OF LIKE KILLING TWO BIRDS WITH ONE STONE: REGISTRATION AND THE SOUGHT-AFTER SOCIALIST UNITY.</p><p>PERHAPS THIS IS WHY THEY HELD THEIR PLENUM, WHERE ON 28 AND 29 OCTOBER THEY DISCUSSED THE ADVANTAGES OF REGISTERING THEIR OWN PARTY, IN OTHER WORDS, RESPONDING ONCE AND FOR ALL TO THE INITIATIVES OF THE NUNEZES, WHO TOOK OVER THE PPD, THE ONLY LEGALLY RECOGNIZED SOCIALIST GROUP. OTHERS THOUGHT THAT IT WOULD BE WISER TO PROMOTE A PARTY IN THE "SOCIALIST SPACE," BRING TOGETHER THERE CHRISTIAN LEFT, MAPU-BARRUETO AND THE SMALL SOCIALIST GROUPS THAT STILL EXIST, IN OTHER WORDS, COSONO AS A PARTY. THIS STAND OBVIOUSLY GAVE PRIORITY TO SOMETHING OF A LEADING POLITICAL ROLE AND KEPT THE PC AT A DISTANCE.</p><p>THE OPTION OF REGISTERING A BROAD LEFT-WING GROUP WAS ALSO RAISED AT THE PLENUM; TO MANY THIS ENTAILED A CERTAIN "SACRIFICE" OF PREDOMINANCE BY THE SOCIALISTS.</p><p>THE PS-ALMEYDA ULTIMATELY OPTED FOR A "CONSENSUS" VOTE, OF WHOSE PUBLIC VERSION THERE WERE SEVERAL INTERPRETATIONS. THERE WAS TALK OF "THE REGISTRATION OF A LEGAL INSTRUMENT REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SOCIALIST SPACE AT THE DISPOSAL OF THE GRASSROOTS FORCES AND OF THE PROGRESSIVE AND LEFTIST INDEPENDENTS WHO HAVE SO FAR BELONGED TO UNLEGALIZED PARTIES." THE INTENTION OF THE SOCIALIST LANGUAGE WAS CLEAR, BUT THE PARTY DID NOT CLOSE RANKS WITH A BROAD LEFT-WING ALLIANCE. THE EMPHASIS WAS IN THE EYE OF THE BEHOLDER.</p><p>WHAT WAS NOT MADE PUBLIC WAS THAT THE POLITICAL VOTE OF "THE MORE THAN 50 AND FEWER THAN 100 PARTICIPANTS" SPOKE OF GIVING PRIORITY TO SOCIALIST LEADERSHIP IN THE NEW PARTY. THE NEGOTIATIONS ARE NOW FOCUSING ON THIS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>