<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0098"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0098"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-12-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0098</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0098</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 22 DEC 88 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] NATIONAL POLICE DIRECTOR COLONEL CARLOS MAURICIO GUZMAN AGUILAR ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT EIGHT GUERRILLAS, MEMBERS OF THE FMLN URBAN COMMAND UNITS, ARE BEING HELD BY THE NATIONAL POLICE. FOUR OF THE GUERRILLAS WERE CAPTURED IN THE MALAGA NEIGHBORHOOD TUESDAY FOLLOWING A SHOOT-OUT WITH POLICE.</p><p>GUZMAN AGUILAR DISCLOSED THAT ONE OF THE EIGHT GUERRILLAS IS THE DAUGHTER OF A UNIVERSITY LEADER. THE EIGHT REBELS WERE CAPTURED DURING THE PAST 48 HOURS AND CHARGED WITH BEING MEMBERS OF THE FMLN URBAN COMMAND UNITS. THE FIRST FOUR SUSPECTED GUERRILLAS WERE DETAINED AFTER THEY ATTACKED TWO POLICEMEN AND CRASHED THE VEHICLE THEY WERE IN. THE POLICE SEIZED LARGE-CALIBER WEAPONS FROM THEM.</p><p>LATER, DURING THE POLICE INVESTIGATION, THE FOUR REBELS SUPPLIED INFORMATION TO LOCATE ANOTHER URBAN GUERRILLA GROUP, THE POLICE DIRECTOR NOTED.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [GUZMAN AGUILAR] THE NATIONAL POLICE CAPTURED FOUR INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE MEMBERS OF URBAN COMMAND UNITS. THEIR NAMES ARE: CARLOS ELIAS MENJIVAR GUEVARA, RENE ARMANDO GUEVARA MARTINEZ, MARCO TULIO MOLINA ESCOBAR, AND CLAUDIA INES CANJURA GUILLEN. CANJURA GUILLEN IS THE DAUGHTER OF CARLOS CANJURA, WHO IS THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY'S GENERAL ASSEMBLY.</p><p>YESTERDAY, CANJURA AND THE UNIVERSITY LAWYER WENT TO THE POLICE STATION TO ASK ABOUT HIS DAUGHTER'S WHEREABOUTS. ACCORDING TO HIM, SHE HAD DISAPPEARED 2 OR 3 DAYS AGO AND HE HAD FOUND OUT THAT THE POLICE WERE HOLDING HER.</p><p>BASED ON INFORMATION SUPPLIED BY THE ARRESTED GUERRILLAS, THE POLICE ARRESTED ANOTHER FOUR INDIVIDUALS YESTERDAY IN THE ZACAMILLO NEIGHBORHOOD. THEY ARE: JAIME ALEXANDER ATENCIO VALLADARES, LUIS SAN SALVADOR RIVAS CARRILLO, ANA RUTH MERINO DIAZ, AND CLAUDIA CAROLINA SANCHEZ FLORES.</p><p>FOLLOWING THE SHOOT-OUT BETWEEN THE POLICE AND REBELS IN MONSERRAT [NAME AS HEARD], POLICE FOUND AND SEIZED THE FOLLOWING WEAPONS IN THE GUERRILLAS' CAR: TWO ROMANIAN MP-24 9-MM SUBMACHINEGUNS, ONE NORTH KOREAN 9-MM PISTOL, ONE .38 CALIBER HUNGARIAN-MADE PISTOL, 4 HAND GRENADES, AND 4 STICKS OF TNT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>GUZMAN AGUILAR SAID THAT AFTER THE 72 HOURS THAT THE LAW ALLOWS TO PROCESS AN INMATE PASS, THE EIGHT GUERRILLAS WILL BE TURNED OVER TO JUDICIAL AUTHORITIES, WHO WILL DETERMINE THE INMATES' RESPONSIBLITY FOR THESE ACTS.</p><p>THE MILITARY OFFICER MADE THESE STATEMENTS AT THE PUBLIC SECURITY MILITARY ACADEMY DURING A CEREMONY TO SWEAR IN 19 NEW NATIONAL POLICE OFFICERS.</p></body></html>