<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0096"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0096"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-12-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="RIO DE JANEIRO (BRAZIL)"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0096</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0096</p><p>RIO DE JANEIRO (BRAZIL), 22 DEC 88 (REDE GLOBO TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] SAO PAULO FEDERAL POLICE HAVE SEIZED TWO DRUG TRAFFICKERS CARRYING 160 KILOGRAMS OF COCAINE. THIS IS THE LARGEST DRUG SEIZURE THIS YEAR IN SAO PAULO.</p><p>AT 2130 IN THE LOCAL NEIGHBORHOOD OF PLATINEDI, A CAR PASSING 2 BLOCKS FROM THE PUBLIC SECURITY SECRETARY OF THE STATE WAS SURROUNDED BY A GROUP OF FEDERAL POLICEMEN ARMED WITH PISTOLS AND MACHINEGUNS. IN A QUICK OPERATION, A MAN AND A WOMAN WERE ARRESTED AND THE CAR WAS TAKEN TO THE DISTRICT POLICE OFFICE. ONLY TODAY WERE THE CONTENTS OF THE CAR EXHIBITED: SEVEN SUITCASES WITH 51 PLASTIC BAGS CONTAINING A TOTAL OF 160 KILOGRAMS OF COCAINE. THIS AMOUNT OF COCAINE IS WORTH NEARLY $2 MILLION. TO DISGUISE THE ODOR OF THE DRUG THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS PACKED SOME PINEAPPLES AMONG THE PLASTIC BAGS.</p><p>THE FEDERAL POLICE DID NOT REVEAL THE DETAILS OF THE OPERATION, NOR DID THEY IDENTIFY THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS. IT WAS LEARNED THAT THEY ARE LEOPOLDO GOMES PORTAO AND GENILDE FERNANDES MORAIS, WHO LIVE IN CORUMBA, MATO GROSSO DO SUL. THEY PICKED UP THE COCAINE IN BOLIVIA, AND THEY WERE GOING TO DISTRIBUTE IT IN SAO PAULO AND RIO DE JANEIRO.</p><p>THE FEDERAL POLICE REVEALED THAT LEOPOLDO GOMES PORTAO HAD ALREADY SERVED PRISON TIME TWICE FOR DRUG TRAFFICKING, AND THAT THE CAR HE WAS DRIVING HAD BEEN STOLEN IN RIO DE JANEIRO.</p></body></html>