<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0035"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0035"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-11-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BELMOPAN (BELIZE)"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0035</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0035</p><p>BELMOPAN (BELIZE), 24 NOV 88 (BRIDGETOWN CANA) -- [TEXT] BELIZE'S STATE RADIO ON THURSDAY REPORTED THAT A GUATEMALAN GUNBOAT FIRED AT A BRITISH NAVAL VESSEL THAT HAS BEEN CONDUCTING A SURVEY IN BELIZE'S WATERS. THE RADIO SAID THE INCIDENT OCCURRED LAST SUNDAY IN THE WATERS OFF SOUTHERN BELIZE.</p><p>THE REPORT SAID THAT THE HMS FAWN, WHICH HAS BEEN CONDUCTING HOLOGRAPHIC SURVEYS, WAS REPORTEDLY IN BELIZEAN TERRITORIAL WATERS--NEAR THE MEDIAN LINE WHERE THE SEA BOUNDARIES OF HONDURAS, BELIZE AND GUATEMALA MEET--WHEN "A GUATEMALAN GUNBOAT ORDERED THE SHIP TO STOP." THE INSTRUCTION WAS IGNORED, THE RADIO SAID, "WHEREUPON THE GUATEMALAN VESSEL FIRED A SHOT IN THE DIRECTION OF THE BRITISH SURVEY VESSEL."</p><p>THE BRITISH DISPATCHED TWO ROYAL AIRFORCE FIGHTER PLANES TO THE "GENERAL AREA AND ONCE THE BRITISH HARRIERS APPEARED AT THE SITE OF THE INCIDENT, THE BRITISH COMMUNICATED BY TELEPHONE WITH GUATEMALAN AUTHORITIES," THE RADIO REPORTED. AGREEMENT WAS REACHED FOR THE GUATEMALAN VESSEL TO WITHDRAW FROM THE AREA.</p><p>BRITISH AUTHORITIES HAVE TAKEN UP THE MATTER WITH GUATEMALA AND TRUST THAT GUATEMALAN AUTHORITIES WILL TAKE MEASURES TO ENSURE "THAT AN UNFORTUNATE AND DANGEROUS INCIDENT" WHICH OCCURRED ON SUNDAY "WILL NOT RECUR," THE RADIO SAID.</p><p>IN EARLY OCTOBER THE GUATEMALAN NAVAL PATROL IN THE SAME GENERAL AREA IN THE SOUTH OF BELIZE, SEIZED A HONDURAS REGISTERED BOAT ALONG WITH ITS HONDURAN CREW AND FIVE BELIZEANS INCLUDING FIVE FISHERMEN AND A MARINE BIOLOGIST WHO WERE CONDUCTING DEEP SEA FISHING RESEARCH IN THE AREA. THE BELIZEANS WERE LATER RELEASED AFTER THE BELIZE GOVERNMENT APPROACHED GUATEMALAN AUTHORITIES. BELIZE PRIME MINISTER MANUAL ESQUIVEL LATER TOLD A PRESS CONFERENCE THAT THE HONDURAN VESSEL WAS IN GUATEMALAN WATERS WHEN IT WAS SEIZED.</p><p>RELATIONS BETWEEN BELIZE AND GUATEMALA HAVE BEEN STRAINED BY THEIR TERRITORIAL DISPUTE. GUATEMALA CLAIMS A SECTION OF BELIZE--A CLAIM WHICH THE FORMER BRITISH COLONY REJECTED.</p></body></html>