<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0028"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0028"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-10-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0028</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0028</p><p>SANTIAGO, 3 OCT 88 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] A TERRORIST ATTACK, IN WHICH CZECHOSLOVAK BOMBS WERE USED, HAS DESTROYED FOUR HIGH TENSION TOWERS IN THE CENTRAL REGION. THIS ATTACK HAS CUT THE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY TO A VAST REGION BETWEEN COPIAPO AND SANTIAGO. THE BLACKOUT OCCURRED ON SATURDAY NIGHT, 1 OCTOBER, AND LASTED FOR APPROXIMATELY ONE-HALF HOUR IN THE METROPOLITAN REGION.</p><p>ACCORDING TO ENDESA [NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER, INC.], ONE OF THE TOWERS KNOCKED DOWN WAS LOCATED ON KM 24 OF THE MELIPILLA-RAPEL HIGHWAY.</p><p>THE TOWER, LOCATED IN THE MAITENES SECTOR, IS ONE OF THE MAIN TOWERS OF THE HIGH TENSION NETWORK.</p><p>ANOTHER TOWER DESTROYED BY THE TERRORISTS WAS TOWER NO 430 IN THE ITAHUA-ALTO JAHUEL SECTOR, WHICH IS CONNECTED TO THE MAIN ELECTRICITY NETWORK.</p><p>IN ADDITION TO THESE FOUR DESTROYED TOWERS, OTHER EXPLOSIONS WERE HEARD THAT SAME NIGHT IN SANTIAGO. THEY WERE CAUSED BY BOMBS PLANTED BY TERRORISTS WHO SEEK TO FRIGHTEN THE POPULATION.</p><p>ACCORDING TO POLICE SOURCES, THE BOMBS USED TO CAUSE SO MUCH DAMAGE ARE POWERFUL CZECHOSLOVAK-MADE PLASTIC BOMBS, OF THE SAME TYPE THAT WERE FOUND AMONG THE CLANDESTINE ARSENALS SMUGGLED INTO THE COUNTRY BY THE MARXIST LEFTISTS AT CARRIZAL BAJO.</p><p>THE TERRORISTS ALSO USED TNT IN THEIR BOMB ATTACKS.</p></body></html>