<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0027"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0027"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-09-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0027</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0027</p><p>LIMA, 15 SEP 88 (EL COMERCIO) -- [TEXT] THE POLICE HAVE ARRESTED JUAN ANTONIO LEON MONTERO, AKA COMRADE JOSE, WHO IS REGARDED AS AN IMPORTANT MEMBER OF A TERRORIST COLUMN THAT CONDUCTED ATTACKS IN THE SAN MARTIN JUNGLE UNDER THE LEADERSHIP OF TERRORIST VICTOR POLAY CAMPOS, AKA COMRADE ROLANDO.</p><p>THE DIRCOTE [ANTITERRORIST DIRECTORATE] HAS ALSO REPORTED THAT LEON TOOK PART IN TERRORIST ATTACKS WITH NESTOR SERPA CARTOLINI, ANOTHER TOP MRTA LEADER.</p><p>ACCORDING TO INVESTIGATIONS, A SO-CALLED COMRADE LUCHO CONVINCED COMRADE JOSE TO JOIN THE MRTA IN JULY 1986.</p><p>UNTIL MARCH 1987 LEON DISTRIBUTED LEAFLETS ON STREETS AND SQUARES, PAINTED SLOGANS ON THE WALLS OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS, AND DELIVERED FOOD--WHICH WAS STOLEN FROM WELL-KNOWN BUSINESS FIRMS--IN SHANTYTOWNS.</p><p>IN MID-AUGUST 1987, LEON GOT INTO TOUCH WITH COMRADE MARIO, WITH WHOM HE TRAVELED TO THE VILLAGE OF TARAPOTO TO JOIN THE MRTA NORTHEASTERN COLUMN LED BY POLAY CAMPOS AND EMILIO SALAS SALDANA, AKA COMRADE MOISES, AMONG OTHERS.</p><p>AS A MEMBER OF THE MRTA, LEON PARTICIPATED IN THE ATTACK AGAINST THE CIVIL GUARD POSTS OF TABALOZOS, SAN MARTIN, AND SOLITOR. DURING THE FIRST HALF OF NOVEMBER, HE PARTICIPATED IN AN ATTACK ON THE GC [CIVIL GUARD] IN THE TOWNSHIP OF JUANJUI.</p><p>DURING THIS ATTACK, GC LIEUTENANT JORGE CIEZA LACHO WAS KILLED BY THE MRTA TERRORISTS, WHO ALSO SEIZED LARGE AMOUNTS OF WEAPONS, AMMUNITION, AND GRENADES. A FEW HOURS LATER THE TERRORISTS ATTACKED THE VILLAGE OF SAN JOSE DE SISA.</p><p>LEON WAS ARRESTED IN LIMA BY DIRCOTE PERSONNEL. LEON HAD BEEN KEPT UNDER SURVEILLANCE FOR SEVERAL MONTHS AFTER HIS RETURN FROM THE JUNGLE, WHERE THE MRTA WAS PRACTICALLY ANNIHILATED BY THE ARMY.</p><p>LEON WAS PLACED AT THE DISPOSAL OF THE COURT ON TERRORIST CHARGES.</p></body></html>