<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0060"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0060"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-10-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0060</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0060</p><p>LIMA, 28 OCT 88 (EFE) -- [TEXT] EEC AND ANDEAN GROUP OFFICIALS HAVE HELD MEETINGS AT THE CARTAGENA AGREEMENT BOARD HEADQUARTERS TO PROGRAM ACTIVITIES AIMED AT INCREASING TRADE TIES BETWEEN THE TWO GROUPS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO WHAT THE CARTAGENA AGREEMENT BOARD, A TECHNICAL-COMMUNITY INTEGRATION ORGANIZATION, REPORTED TODAY, THE POLITICAL AGREEMENTS THAT WERE ADOPTED BY THE ANDEAN-EUROPEAN JOINT COMMISSION IN THE MEETINGS HELD IN BRUSSELS IN APRIL ARE NOW BEING IMPLEMENTED THROUGH THE HOLDING OF THESE TALKS.</p><p>THE FIRST MEETING IN LIMA WILL BE TO DISCUSS FUNDAMENTAL ISSUES SUCH AS THE BETTER USE OF THE GENERALIZED PREFERENTIAL RATES SYSTEM THAT IS IMPLEMENTED BY THE EEC, THE ESTABLISHMENT OF ACTIVITIES TO PROMOTE TRADE, AND THE DEVELOPMENT OF ANDEAN EXPORTS.</p><p>THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THESE AGREEMENTS NOT ONLY ENCOMPASS THE STRENGTHENING OF TRADE TIES, BUT ALSO INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND ECONOMIC COOPERATION FOR DEVELOPMENT.</p><p>PETER HEISLER, THE CHIEF OF THE EEC DELEGATION, SAID THAT THIS MEETING SHOWS "OUR WILLINGNESS TO COOPERATE."</p><p>ACCORDING TO STATISTICS PROVIDED BY THE CARTAGENA AGREEMENT BOARD, IN 1986 THE ANDEAN GROUP, COMPRISED OF BOLIVIA, ECUADOR, COLOMBIA, PERU, AND VENEZUELA, RECORDED A DEFICIT OF $266 MILLION IN ITS TRADE WITH EEC COUNTRIES.</p><p>THIS DEFICIT IN ANDEAN TRADE, WHICH HAS NOT BEEN RECORDED SINCE 1982, WHEN THE FOREIGN DEBT CRISIS EXPLODED IN ANDEAN GROUP COUNTRIES, IS CAUSED BY THE FALL BY ALMOST 23 PERCENT OF ANDEAN EXPORTS, WHICH IN 1988 TOTALED $3.847 BILLION.</p><p>THIS DEFICIT IS ALSO CAUSED BY AN INCREASE OF 18 PERCENT IN ANDEAN IMPORTS FROM EEC COUNTRIES, WORTH $4.113 BILLION.</p><p>BETWEEN 1970 AND 1986, THE ANDEAN GROUP ACCUMULATED A TRADE DEFICIT OF $2.175 BILLION WITH THE GROUP OF 12.</p><p>DURING THIS PERIOD, ANDEAN EXPORTS TOTALED $54.795 BILLION, WHILE IMPORTS TOTALED $56.970 BILLION.</p><p>THE COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CARTAGENA AGREEMENT BOARD MEMBERS AND EEC COUNTRIES WAS SIGNED ON 17 DECEMBER 1983 IN CARTAGENA, COLOMBIA.</p><p>LATER, THE CONGRESSES OF ALL THE COUNTRIES COMPRISING THE ANDEAN GROUP APPROVED THE AGREEMENT WHILE NEGOTIATIONS TO IMPLEMENT THEM, PARTICULARLY REGARDING TRADE, HAVE BEEN TAKING PLACE SINCE APRIL 1988.</p></body></html>