<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0049"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0049"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-11-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0049</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0049</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 11 NOV 88 (RADIO CADENA SONORA) -- [REPORT] [ELMER GOMEZ] [TEXT] [GOMEZ] PRESIDENT JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE CALLED ON THE COUNTRY'S POLITICAL PARTIES THAT WILL PARTICIPATE IN THE UPCOMING ELECTIONS TO PROTECT THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS AND THE REPUBLIC. DUARTE MADE THIS CALL DURING HIS SPEECH OPENING THE 13TH INTERNATIONAL FAIR OF EL SALVADOR, IN WHICH 25 COUNTRIES ARE PARTICIPATING.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [DUARTE] I HAVE ALWAYS BEEN A PEACE LOVER, AND THAT IS WHY IT GRIEVES ME TO SEE THE SERIOUSNESS OF THE CURRENT SALVADORAN CONFLICT AND CRISIS. I, HOWEVER, BELIEVE THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS WILL BE STRENGTHENED. I BELIEVE THE MINDS OF MEN WILL BE TRANSFORMED POSITIVELY, AND IDEOLOGICAL STRUGGLES--EVEN THE MOST POLARIZED ONES--WILL BE DEFINITELY SOLVED BY THE CIVILIZED MEANS OF THE ELECTORAL PROCESS.</p><p>I CALL ON ALL POLITICAL PARTIES TO STRENGTHEN THE CURRENT POLITICAL PROCESS AND PUT THE SACRED INTERESTS OF THE NATION BEFORE ANY OTHER INTERESTS BECAUSE THAT IS THE ONLY WAY TO PROTECT THE REPUBLIC AND CONSOLIDATE THE DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTION THAT BELONGS TO ALL SALVADORANS.</p><p>I ALSO WANT TO MAKE A CALL TO ALL GROUPS SO THE ELECTORAL PROCESS, WHICH WILL CULMINATE WITH THE ELECTION OF A NEW PRESIDENT NEXT YEAR, DEVELOPS WITH THE SPIRITUAL GRANDEUR THAT CORRESPONDS TO COURAGEOUS PEOPLE, WHO WISH TO SHOW THE WORLD THEIR POLITICAL MATURITY AND THEIR DESIRE TO LIVE IN PEACE.</p><p>THE ELECTORAL PROCESS WILL SLOWLY CONSOLIDATE. I BELIEVE SOONER THAN LATER, GOOD JUDGEMENT WILL PREVAIL IN THE MINDS OF THOSE WHO HAVE BEEN DRIVEN MAD BY BARBARISM. [END RECORDING]</p><p>[GOMEZ] PRESIDENT DUARTE ALSO SAID THE FMLN WILL NOT STOP THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS AND THAT THE SALVADORAN SITUATION IS DIFFERENT FROM THE ONE PRESENTED BY FMLN COMMANDERS JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS AND LEONEL GONZALEZ DURING THEIR LATIN AMERICAN TOUR.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [DUARTE] IT IS TRUE THAT THE ENEMIES OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WILL GO ON CONDUCTING THEIR TERRORIST AND DESTRUCTIVE ACTIONS. THOSE ACTIONS, HOWEVER, WILL NOT AT ALL AFFECT THE PROGRESS MADE BY OUR DEMOCRATIC STRUGGLE. THE TRUTH IS THAT OUR CRISIS IS AS LARGE AS THE EFFORT WE HAVE MADE TO FACE IT. THAT EFFORT GOES BEYOND OUR BORDERS AND REACHES THE ENTIRE WORLD.</p><p>THE SOCIAL AND POLITICAL CHANGES THAT BEGAN TO TAKE PLACE IN EL SALVADOR ARE [WORD INDISTINCT] AND HAVE BEGAN TO SHOW THEIR RESULTS, DESPITE THE DESPERATE ACTIONS THE FMLN-FDR IS CONDUCTING ABROAD IN ORDER TO COUNTER THE RESULTS OF THE PROGRESS WE HAVE MADE.</p><p>THE FOREIGNERS WHO CAME TO PARTICIPATE IN THIS FAIR AS WELL AS THE DISTINGUISHED OAS GENERAL ASSEMBLY DELEGATES WILL CONFIRM THAT THE SALVADORAN SITUATION IS VERY DIFFERENT FROM THAT CIRCULATED ABROAD AND DISSEMINATED AS PART OF AN FMLN -FDR DISINFORMATION PLAN.</p><p>THE REPRESENTATIVES OF OUR LOCAL SUBVERSIVE MOVEMENTS HAVE SAID ABROAD THAT THERE IS REPRESSION IN EL SALVADOR. ONLY A GOVERNMENT THAT IMPOSES ITSELF BY FORCE ON ITS PEOPLE CAN BE DESCRIBED AS A REPRESSIVE GOVERNMENT. OUR COUNTRY NEVER ENJOYED SO MUCH FREEDOM AS NOW AND ITS RULERS WERE NEVER CHOSEN SO FREELY AS THEY ARE NOW. [END RECORDING]</p><p>[GOMEZ] [WORD INDISTINCT] PRESIDENT DUARTE SAID THE 18TH OAS REGULAR MEETING REPRESENTS THE LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES' SUPPORT FOR THE SALVADORAN DEMOCRATIC PROCESS.</p></body></html>