<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0076"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0076"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-12-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0076</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0076</p><p>BOGOTA, 5 DEC 88 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [INTERVIEW WITH SENATOR ALVARO LEYVA DURAN BY MARIA CLARA GRACIA, IN PROGRESS] [TEXT] [BEGIN RECORDING] [LEYVA] ...OVER THE RED TELEPHONE AND SECOND, ALL HOSTILITIES HAVE UNILATERALLY ENDED ON ALL FARC FRONTS. THE GOVERNMENT ONCE ASKED ME WHY THEY DO NOT BEGIN A UNILATERAL END OF HOSTILITIES IF THEY HAVE GOODWILL. HERE IT IS. I CANNOT DO ANY MORE; I HOPE THE GOVERNMENT DOES NOT LET THIS OPPORTUNITY PASS.</p><p>[GRACIA] DO YOU BELIEVE TALKS SHOULD CONTINUE WITH THE GUERRILLA GROUPS?</p><p>[LEYVA] THE TRUTH IS THAT I PROPOSED SOMETHING TO THE GOVERNMENT, THE POLITICAL PARTIES, AND THE GUERRILLAS. WHAT YOU CALL TALKS IS NOTHING MORE THAN THE GUERRILLAS' REPLY TO THE PROPOSAL--THE SAME WAY AS [FORMER PRESIDENT] DR TURBAY, SOCIAL CONSERVATIVE PARTY PRESIDENT DR FABIO VALENCIA, AND DR JARAMILLO OSSA OF THE PATRIOTIC UNION DID. THE CARDINALS HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF THE PROPOSAL, AND THE M-19 AND FARC HAVE REPLIED. IN FACT, THEY WENT EVEN FURTHER; THEY UNILATERALLY ENDED HOSTILITIES. NOW THE BALL IS IN THE GOVERNMENT'S COURT.</p><p>[GRACIA] TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THAT AFTER AGREEING NOT TO, FOR EXAMPLE, CARRY OUT ANY AMBUSHES AGAINST TROOPS, THE GUERRILLAS CONTINUED; THEY BROKE THE AGREEMENT. DO YOU THINK WE CAN AGAIN TRUST THESE STATEMENTS?</p><p>[LEYVA] I CANNOT MEASURE THE CONFIDENCE THAT SHOULD BE GIVEN TO OTHERS. THE ONLY THING I KNOW IS THE GOVERNMENT IS SEEKING PEACE, SO I IMAGINE THIS IS PRECISELY THE WAY. THE SUSPICION THAT THE GOVERNMENT MIGHT HAVE OF THEM IS THE SAME AS YOU MIGHT HAVE, BUT IF THE GOVERNMENT SEEKS PEACE, HERE IS WHERE THEY CAN FIND IT, WITH A PRELIMINARY END TO HOSTILITIES ON ALL FRONTS. THIS IS WHAT [FARC GENERAL SECRETARY] JACOBO ARENAS WROTE IN A LETTER THAT WAS NOT ADDRESSED TO ME BUT TO THE FORMER PRESIDENTS OF COLOMBIA. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>