<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST4-MUC4-0084"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST4-MUC4-0084"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-12-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST4-MUC4-0084</title></head><body><p>TST4-MUC4-0084</p><p>BOGOTA, 10 DEC 88 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] THE GOVERNMENT WILL NOT ACCEPT MEDIATORS IN A DIALOGUE WITH THE GUERRILLAS, PRESIDENTIAL ADVISER RAFAEL PARDO RUEDA HAS SAID. THE OFFICIAL ADDED THAT THE GOVERNMENT CANNOT GUARANTEE THE SAFETY OF THE POLITICIANS OR GUERRILLAS WHO ATTEND THE REGIONAL TALKS WHICH ARE TAKING PLACE IN VARIOUS PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE PRESIDENTIAL ADVISER ALSO WARNED THAT THE GOVERNMENT WOULD NOT CHANGE ITS ATTITUDE TOWARD THE REBELS AND THAT ANY MEETINGS IN SEARCH OF PEACE WILL ONLY TAKE PLACE BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE GUERRILLA LEADERS. EVEN THOUGH THE GOVERNMENT HAS NOT RESPONDED TO SENATOR ALVARO LEIVA'S PROPOSAL, WHICH CALLS FOR A TOP-LEVEL COMMISSION TO HOLD TALKS WITH THE GUERRILLAS, THE FARC AND THE M-19 GUERRILLAS HAVE ALREADY ANNOUNCED THAT IF THE GOVERNMENT CALLS FOR THE CREATION OF SUCH A COMMISSION, THEY WOULD IMMEDIATELY ORDER A TRUCE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PARDO] THE GOVERNMENT CANNOT ASSUME THAT RESPONSIBILITY WITH PRIVATE INDIVIDUALS. OUR PEACE INITIATIVE CALLS FOR A DIRECT DIALOGUE WITH GUERRILLAS WHO ARE COMMITTED TO A RECONCILIATION, ONCE THE RIGHT CONDITIONS ARE PRESENT. THIS POSITION REMAINS UNCHANGED.</p><p>[REPORTER] DOES THIS MEAN SENATOR ALVARO LEIVA'S PROPOSAL HAS NOT BEEN TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT?</p><p>[PARDO] NO, THE GOVERNMENT WILL RESPOND TO DR LEIVA'S PROPOSAL IN THE NEXT FEW DAYS. HIS PROPOSAL HAS BROUGHT ABOUT POSITIVE RESULTS IN THE SENSE THAT THE FARC AND M-19 HAVE EXPRESSED THEIR DESIRE TO SUSPEND TERRORIST ACTS. THE GOVERNMENT WILL ANNOUNCE A FORMAL RESPONSE TO THIS PROPOSAL IN THE NEXT FEW DAYS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>MEANWHILE, FORMER PRESIDENTS BELISARIO BETHANCOURT AND MISAEL PASTRANA BORRERO URGED THAT A COMMISSION BE FORMED FOR TALKS WITH THE REBELS, WHICH THEY CONSIDER THE BEST CHANCE FOR PEACE.</p></body></html>