<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0046"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0046"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0046</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0046</p><p>BOGOTA, 10 OCT 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] "THE EXTRADITABLES," THE ARMED BRANCH OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL HAVE CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE MURDER OF TWO EMPLOYEES OF BOGOTA'S DAILY EL ESPECTADOR PERPETRATED TODAY IN MEDELLIN, A SOURCE FROM THAT NEWSPAPER TOLD EFE.</p><p>MIGUEL SOLER RODRIGUEZ, EL ESPECTATOR'S CIRCULATION MANAGER AND MARTHA LUZ LOPEZ, THE CORRESPONDENT'S OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR, WERE KILLED TODAY IN SEPARATE ATTACKS CARRIED OUT BY GUNMEN IN MEDELLIN, COLOMBIA'S SECOND LARGEST CITY AND CAPITAL OF THE ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT.</p><p>SHORTLY AFTER THE MURDERS, AN ANONYMOUS CALL WAS RECEIVED AT EL ESPECTADOR'S OFFICE IN MEDELLIN, THREATENING TO KILL ALL THE EDITORS AND OFFICE PERSONNEL WHO DO NOT RESIGN IN 3 DAYS.</p><p>"THE EXTRADITABLES," THE VOICE SAID, "DO NOT WANT THAT NEWSPAPER CIRCULATING IN ANTIOQUIA ANYMORE."</p><p>MARTHA LUZ LOPEZ, 35, WHO WORKED FOR EL ESPECTADOR 11 YEARS, WAS KILLED BY TWO MEN ON MOTORCYCLES WHO INTERCEPTED HER CAR AT A CORNER AND SHOT HER SEVERAL TIMES. AT THE MOMENT OF THE ATTACK, SHE WAS ACCOMPANIED BY HER MOTHER MARTHA LOPEZ OROZCO DE LOPEZ, WHO WAS WOUNDED.</p><p>SOLER, WHO WAS 45-YEARS OLD AND HAD WORKED FOR 25 YEARS AT EL ESPECTATOR, WAS ALSO KILLED BY UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUALS WHILE HE WAS ON HIS WAY BACK TO HIS RESIDENCE.</p><p>SOLER, WHO WAS IN CHARGE OF ADVERTISING AND CIRCULATION OF EL ESPECTADOR IN MEDELLIN AND THE NORTHWESTERN AREA OF COLOMBIA, WAS MARRIED AND THE FATHER OF THREE CHILDREN.</p><p>THE MAIN OFFICES IN BOGOTA OF EL ESPECTADOR, THE NEWSPAPER MOST THREATENED BY COLOMBIA'S DRUG TRAFFICKING MAFIA, WERE PARTIALLY DESTROYED ON 2 SEPTEMBER WHEN A CAR BOMB EXPLOSION INJURED OVER 90 PEOPLE.</p><p>NEWSPAPER DIRECTOR GUILLERMO CANO WAS MURDERED AS HE WAS LEAVING HIS OFFICE ON 17 DECEMBER 1986. THIS CRIME WAS ATTRIBUTED TO THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, WHICH TOGETHER WITH THE CALI CARTEL, IS CONSIDERED TO BE AMONG THE MOST IMPORTANT ORGANIZATIONS IN THE WORLD INVOLVED IN THE TRAFFICKING AND DISTRIBUTION OF COCAINE.</p><p>NEWSPAPER ATTORNEY AND JOURNALIST HECTOR GIRALDO GALVEZ, WHO WAS THE CIVIL PROSECUTOR IN THE INVESTIGATION INTO GUILLERMO CANO'S HOMICIDE, WAS ALSO MURDERED IN BOGOTA ON 29 MARCH.</p><p>EL ESPECTADOR HAS CHARACTERIZED ITSELF BY REJECTING AND CONDEMNING DRUG TRAFFICKING AND OTHER CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES INVOLVING MAFIOSOS.</p></body></html>