<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0028"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0028"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0028</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0028</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 5 AUG 89 (LA VOZ DE HONDURAS NETWORK) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH HONDURAN PRESIDENT JOSE AZCONA HOYOS BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [TEXT] [REPORTER] MR PRESIDENT, ONE OF THE TOPICS TO BE DISCUSSED DEALS WITH THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN].</p><p>[AZCONA] I BELIEVE THAT AT THIS SUMMIT THE CENTRAL [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>[REPORTER] HOW, MR PRESIDENT?</p><p>[AZCONA] WELL, I DO NOT KNOW. IT IS NOT EASY TO SOLVE THIS PROBLEM. NONE OF THE PROBLEMS WILL BE EASY TO SOLVE.</p><p>[REPORTER] IS THERE A POSSIBILITY FOR DIALOGUE?</p><p>[AZCONA] YES, BUT THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT WOULD ALSO HAVE TO HOLD A DIALOGUE WITH THE NICARAGUAN RESISTANCE.</p><p>[REPORTER] I AM THE VOZ DE NICARAGUA REPORTER. WHAT IS YOUR OPINION OF THE AGREEMENT REACHED BY THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT WITH THE POLITICAL PARTIES?</p><p>[AZCONA] WELL, I READ THE AGREEMENT LAST NIGHT AND BELIEVE IT TO BE A STEP FORWARD. INCIDENTALLY, I READ IT TWICE LAST NIGHT AND IT IS A VERY LONG DOCUMENT. I AM TALKING ABOUT THE AGREEMENT WITH THE PARTIES THAT ARE TRULY OPPOSITION PARTIES AND NOT THE ONE MADE WITH THE OTHER PARTIES BECAUSE THESE ARE NOT REALLY OPPOSITION PARTIES.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT I WANTED WAS YOUR OPINION ON THE DEMOBILIZATION OF THE CONTRAS FROM HONDURAS.</p><p>[AZCONA] OH, YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT THE SMALL DOCUMENT THAT MAKES DEMANDS, DEMANDS, AND MORE DEMANDS. THIS DOCUMENT HAS NO VALUE.</p><p>[REPORTER] I MEAN THE DOCUMENT SIGNED WITH THE 21 POLITICAL PARTIES...</p><p>[AZCONA, INTERRUPTING] THAT AGREEMENT IS VALUABLE BUT IT DOES NOT MENTION THE CONTRA DEMOBILIZATION. THE DOCUMENT STATES THAT THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT AND THE OPPOSITION PARTIES AGREE THAT THE ESQUIPULAS II AND COSTA DEL SOL AGREEMENTS SHOULD BE ABIDED BY. THIS IS THE DOCUMENT I READ TWICE, AND I BELIEVE IT IS QUITE SERIOUS AND A STEP FORWARD.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT WILL YOU DO TO GET THE MERCENARIES TO LEAVE YOUR COUNTRY?</p><p>[AZCONA] FIRST, I DO NOT USE DEROGATORY TERMS. THEY ARE NICARAGUANS WHO FOR DIFFERENT REASONS DISAGREE WITH THE SYSTEM IN NICARAGUA. THESE NICARAGUANS OPPOSE THE SYSTEM, AND FOR THIS AND OTHER REASONS THEY HAVE TAKEN UP ARMS AGAINST THE SYSTEM AND HAVE TAKEN REFUGE IN HONDURAS. I DO NOT USE THE TERM MERCENARY. I UNDERSTAND THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT USES IT AND IT IS ALL RIGHT FOR THEM TO DO SO, BUT I WILL NOT ANSWER A QUESTION THAT USES A TERM THAT I BELIEVE IS TOO DEROGATORY.</p><p>[REPORTER] THE DEMOBILIZATION PLAN HAS A VERY FIRM DEADLINE AND IS TO BE COMPLETED WITHIN 90 DAYS. DO YOU THINK...</p><p>[AZCONA, INTERRUPTING] NO, NO. THE 90-DAY DEADLINE IS INCLUDED IN AN AGREEMENT SIGNED BY NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT ORTEGA WITH THREE SMALL NICARAGUAN LEFTIST PARTIES. I DO NOT BELIEVE THIS DOCUMENT IS VERY IMPORTANT. I DO BELIEVE, HOWEVER, THAT THE AGREEMENT SIGNED BY THE NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT AND THE OPPOSITION PARTIES IS IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT IS BASED ON THE ESQUIPULAS II AND COSTA DEL SOL AGREEMENTS. [WORDS INDISTINCT] TERRORISTS IN EL SALVADOR AND CONTRAS ARE PRESENTLY NOT ACTIVE, SO BOTH SITUATIONS -- CONTRAS AND GUERRILLAS -- ARE DIFFERENT.</p><p>[REPORTER] IS IT TRUE THAT PRESIDENT CRISTIANI IS GOING TO PRESENT A PARALLEL PROGRAM AT THE SUMMIT?</p><p>[AZCONA] [WORDS INDISTINCT] PRESIDENT CRISTIANI COMES TO THE SUMMIT AS EL SALVADOR'S LEGITIMATE PRESIDENT. HE HAS THE RIGHT TO PRESENT HIS POINTS OF VIEW. HE HAS THE RIGHT TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE SOLUTION OF PROBLEMS IN OTHER COUNTRIES AS WELL AS TO ONES IN HIS OWN COUNTRY.</p><p>[REPORTER] IS THERE A POSSIBILITY THAT A DEMOBILIZATION PLAN FOR THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS WILL BE STUDIED AT THIS SUMMIT IF PRESIDENT CRISTINAI PRESENTS ONE?</p><p>[AZCONA] OF COURSE. HE HAS A RIGHT TO DO SO. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>