<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0023"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0023"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0023</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0023</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 12 JUL 89 (PRAVDA) -- [STATEMENT] [SOVIET COMMITTEE FOR SOLIDARITY WITH LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES] [TEXT] BLOOD IS FLOWING IN COLUMBIA, MORE ABUNDANTLY EVERY YEAR. LAST YEAR, ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL STATISTICS, THERE WERE 4,600 VICTIMS OF POLITICAL VIOLENCE. ABOUT HALF OF THOSE KILLED WERE PEASANTS. AN "INTERNAL WAR," UNLEASHED BY THE OLIGARCHY MANY YEARS AGO, IS BEING WAGED AGAINST THEM. THE ACTIVISTS OF THE COALITION OF LEFT-WING PARTIES AND ORGANIZATIONS, WITH THE PARTICIPATION OF THE COMMUNISTS -- THE PATRIOTIC UNION -- COME NEXT, AFTER THE PEASANTS. THE PEOPLE KILLED INCLUDE JAIME PARDO LEAL, PRESIDENT OF ITS NATIONAL COORDINATION COMMITTEE, AROUND 30 DEPUTIES, AND MANY MUNICIPAL ADVISORS AND MAYORS.</p><p>THE ORGANIZERS OF THE "DIRTY WAR" AND THE LEADERS OF THE "DEATH SQUADS," AND OTHER ULTRA-RIGHT-WING FORMATIONS AND THEIR HIRED KILLERS, FEEL THAT THEY CAN GO UNPUNISHED. THE RESPONSE TO THE TERROR OF THE RIGHT HAS THE ARMED STRUGGLE WHICH HAS CONTINUED FOR MANY YEARS AND LEFT-WING EXTREMISM.</p><p>IN THE PAST FEW YEARS, VICTIMS OF POLITICAL TERROR ALSO INCLUDED REPRESENTATIVES OF THE RULING CIRCLES AND THEIR LAW-ENFORCEMENT ORGANS, WAGING AN UNEQUAL STRUGGLE AGAINST THE POWERFUL NARCOTICS MAFIA. AS A "SHADOW ECONOMY," IT IS TRYING TO BECOME PART OF THE STATE STRUCTURE. IN THE PAST YEAR THE NARCOTICS BUSINESS HAS "ENRICHED" THE COUNTRY'S ECONOMY WITH $2 BILLION AND EVEN PROPOSED THAT IT WOULD PAY OFF THE GIGANTIC FOREIGN DEBT. THE NARCOTICS MAFIA CARRIES OUT REPRISALS AGAINST ITS OPPONENTS. THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE, A MEMBER OF THE SUPREME COURT, A DIRECTOR OF THE BIGGEST NEWSPAPER ESPECTADOR, AND, A FEW DAYS AGO, ANTONIO ROLDAN BETANCUR, GOVERNOR OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTIOQUIA WERE KILLED. MANY PROSECUTORS AND JUDGES ARE LEAVING THE COUNTRY THROUGH FEAR FOR THEIR OWN LIVES AND THOSE OF THEIR RELATIVES.</p><p>THE VIOLENCE IS ESCALATING AND THE IMPRESSION IS BEING FORMED THAT CERTAIN FORCES ARE TRYING TO TAKE THE ATTENTION OF THE 30 MILLION STRONG POPULATION OF COLOMBIA AWAY FROM THE URGENT RESOLUTION OF PRESSING SOCIAL PROBLEMS BY DESTABILIZING INTERNAL LIFE.</p><p>SOVIET SOCIETY, IN THE NAME OF OBSERVING BASIC HUMAN RIGHTS AND CHARITY, CONSIDERS THAT OUR CONSCIENCE CANNOT BE RECONCILED WITH THE ORGY OF POLITICAL TERROR OVERWHELMING COLOMBIA. WE APPEAL TO THE PUBLIC OF THE WORLD TO RAISE THEIR VOICES AGAINST THIS EVIL IN THE NAME OF THE COMMON SOLIDARITY OF MANKIND. DRASTIC ACTIONS ARE NEEDED PARTICULARLY ON BEHALF OF INTERNATIONAL AND NATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT ORGANIZATIONS.</p><p>WE CONSIDER THAT IN COLOMBIA ITSELF, DIALOGUE BETWEEN OPPOSING SIDES THAT ARE TAKING THE STAND OF PATRIOTISM AND POLITICAL REALISM IS NECESSARY. THE FRUITFULNESS OF NATIONAL DIALOGUE HAS BEEN PROVED IN PRACTICE IN THE PAST FEW YEARS BY MANY COUNTRIES. THE VITAL INTERESTS OF THE TORMENTED COLOMBIAN PEOPLE CALL FOR CIVIL PEACE.</p></body></html>