<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0001"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0001"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0001</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0001</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [INTERVIEW WITH FMLN COMMANDER HANDAL BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [HANDAL] WE ARE NOT DEMANDING THAT THEY STOP THEIR OPERATIONS AS A PRECONDITION FOR NEGOTIATING. HOWEVER, IT SHOULD BE CLEAR THAT WE ARE FACING THE SAME SITUATION AS BEFORE, THEREFORE, WE HAVE THE SAME RIGHTS AND WILL CONTINUE OUR OPERATIONS UNTIL A CEASE-FIRE IS AGREED.</p><p>IN CARACAS WE COMMITTED OURSELVES TO NEGOTIATING AND HOLDING TALKS IN ORDER TO OBTAIN A CEASE-FIRE AND THE NECESSARY AGREEMENTS FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COUNTRY AND THE ENTIRE NATION.</p><p>THAT IS THE IMPORTANT ISSUE RIGHT NOW. WE HAVE BEEN FIGHTING WITHOUT THAT GOAL, WITHOUT HAVING ANY COMMITMENT TO NEGOTIATE ANYTHING. HOWEVER, THAT DOES NOT MEAN THAT THE SITUATION SHOULD REMAIN THE SAME. NOW THERE IS A NEW FACTOR, A COMMITMENT TO NEGOTIATE AND REACH AGREEMENTS ON ALL THOSE TOPICS. IT IS VERY IMPORTANT THAT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE KNOW THE CONTENTS OF THE AGENDA, THAT THEY ARE FULLY AWARE OF ALL THE TOPICS TO BE DISCUSSED, AND THAT THEY KNOW THE IMPORTANCE OF THE TIMETABLE AGREEMENT FOR DISCUSSIONS AND NEGOTIATIONS. YOU JOURNALISTS CAN HELP THE PEOPLE UNDERSTAND PROBLEM.</p><p>[REPORTER] [WORDS INDISTINCT] COMMANDER, WHEN DO YOU EXPECT THE FMLN TO JOIN THE PROCESS?</p><p>[HANDAL] LOOK, DEADLINES ARE NOT THE MOST IMPORTANT THING RIGHT NOW. WHAT IS IMPORTANT NOW IS COMPLYING WITH THE AGREEMENTS TO REACH POLITICAL AGREEMENTS. THAT IS THE MAIN ASPECT OF THE GENEVA AGREEMENT. IT IS POSSIBLE THAT SOME DEADLINES WILL NOT BE MET. IF DEADLINES ARE SET AND THE TIME FOR IMPLEMENTING THEM EXPIRES, THEN THIS IS TANTAMOUNT TO WASTING TIME. THIS THEN LEADS TO STEPS BEING DEMANDED THAT IN REALITY DEPEND ON THE POLITICAL AGREEMENTS THAT ARE REACHED AND NOT THE DEADLINES FOR REACHING THEM.</p><p>THEREFORE, ACCORDING TO THE AGENDA AND THE TIMETABLE AGREED TO HERE IN CARACAS, THE ACCENT IS ON THE POLITICAL AGREEMENTS. THOSE AGREEMENTS HAVE TO DO WITH CHANGES WITHIN THE ARMED FORCES. EVERYTHING RELATED TO THE ARMED FORCES MUST BE CHANGED. EVERY FACTOR CONCERNING THE ARMED FORCES MUST BE REVIEWED FROM A CERTAIN POINT OR PERSPECTIVE. CHANGES ARE NECESSARY; CHANGES MUST BE MADE AND THOSE CHANGES MUST BE SIGNIFICANT. THESE CHANGES MUST COMPLETELY TRANSFORM THE ARMED FORCES, BEGINNING WITH ITS ROLE AND INFLUENCE IN DETERMINING THE COUNTRY'S POLICIES AND GUIDELINES.</p><p>WE HAVE BEEN PRESENTING PROPOSALS IN THIS REGARD FOR SOME TIME. THE TOPIC OF DEMOCRATIZATION IS CLOSELY LINKED TO THE TOPIC OF THE ARMED FORCES, TO ITS PURGING, ITS REDUCTION, AND IN SUM, ITS END. WE BELIEVE THAT THE COUNTRY WILL NOT ALWAYS NEED THE ARMED FORCES. AS WITH ANY INSTITUTION OR HISTORICAL FACTOR, IT EMERGES, IT IS MAINTAINED FOR A CERTAIN TIME, AND THEN IT TENDS TO DISAPPEAR.</p><p>THE COUNTRY MUST HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO DEVELOP. IT CANNOT CONTINUE ALONG THE SAME PATH BECAUSE THIS WOULD ONLY REPRESENT EXPENSES AND A HEAVY BURDEN FOR THE COUNTRY.</p><p>FOR SEVERAL DECADES, THE ARMED FORCES HAVE MEANT ABSENCE OF LIBERTY, REAL SECURITY, AND THE IMPOSSIBILITY OF THE CIVILIAN SOCIETY TO DECIDE THE COUNTRY'S PATH. ELECTIONS HAVE BEEN TURNED INTO A MERE FORMALITY, WHERE THOSE WHO WERE NOT ELECTED RUN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE COUNTRY IS NOW GOING THROUGH A DRAMA THAT HAS ALSO SHOCKED THE INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC, THE MURDER OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS. EVERYONE IS AWAITING THE RESULTS OF THE INVESTIGATIONS AND HOPING THAT THOSE WHO WERE RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS CRIME WILL BE PUNISHED. WE BELIEVE THAT THE CASE OF JESUIT PRIESTS IS REALLY GRAVE; IT IS A DRAMA THAT REFLECTS THE DRAMA OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S HISTORY IN THE CURRENT CENTURY. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>