<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0043"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0043"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY (EL SALVADOR)"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0043</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0043</p><p>NO CITY (EL SALVADOR), 29 SEP 89 -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI LIBERATION FRONT GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] SUCH AN UNCONDITIONAL CEASE-FIRE DOES NOT CORRESPOND TO THE SPIRIT OF THE ESQUIPULAS AND TELA AGREEMENTS AND THE ACCORDS THE GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN SIGNED IN MEXICO IN WHICH THE SIDES CLEARLY AGREED TO FIND SOLUTIONS IN THE AREA AND IN EL SALVADOR. ASKING FOR AN END TO THE WAR AND NEGOTIATIONS IS LIKE DEMANDING THAT THE SITUATION BE CHANGED WITHOUT HAVING WON THE WAR. IN ADDITION TO BEING UNREALISTIC, THIS IS A FORMULA FOR NOT NEGOTIATING AND CONTINUING THE WAR.</p><p>IN THE ESQUIPULAS II DOCUMENTS, THE GOVERNMENTS URGE THE SIDES TO AGREE TO A CEASE-FIRE. THE TELA ACCORDS ALSO APPEAL TO THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT TO REACH AN AGREEMENT WITH THE FMLN IN THE SPIRIT OF THE ESQUIPULAS II ACCORDS. THIS PARTICULAR AGREEMENT LINKS THE CESSATION OF HOSTILITIES TO DEMOCRATIZATION, SOCIAL JUSTICE, AND SELF-DETERMINATION AS A HARMONIOUS, INDIVISIBLE WHOLE. THIS CONCEPT IS SUPPORTED BY THE UN SECURITY COUNCIL IN ITS RESOLUTION 637 OF 27 JULY 1989. IN ADDITION, THE FIRST PARAGRAPH OF THE MEXICAN ACCORD READS AS FOLLOWS: THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN WILL TALK IN AN EFFORT TO REACH AN UNDERSTANDING THROUGH NEGOTIATIONS TO CONCLUDE THE ARMED CONFLICT THROUGH POLITICAL MEANS AS SOON AS PRACTICABLE. THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN WILL FOSTER THE COUNTRY'S DEMOCRATIZATION AND REUNITE SALVADORAN SOCIETY. THE DIALOGUE IS MEANT TO SERVE AS AN INSTRUMENT FOR REACHING AN AGREEMENT ON CESSATION OF HOSTILITIES. THE AGREEMENT THAT THE GOVERNMENT SIGNED IN MEXICO SAYS NOTHING OF TALKING ABOUT OR NEGOTIATING THE FMLN'S DEMOBILIZATION BUT MENTIONS NEGOTIATIONS TO ENCOURAGE DEMOCRATIZATION TO AGREE ON THE CESSATION OF HOSTILITIES.</p><p>BY INCREASING THE NUMBER OF HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS, CRISTIANI IS CLOSING THE DOOR TO DEMOCRATIZATION. THIS, PLUS HIS REFUSAL TO REACH AN AGREEMENT WITH THE FMLN, MAKES HIM GUILTY OF NONCOMPLIANCE WITH THE COMMITMENTS THAT THE GOVERNMENT MADE AT ESQUIPULAS.</p><p>3. IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMMITMENT WE MADE IN MEXICO AND WITH THE REGIONAL ACCORDS, WE REITERATE OUR FULL WILLINGNESS TO AGREE WITH THE GOVERNMENT ON A CEASE-FIRE AS SOON AS PRACTICABLE AND TO ATTEND THE UPCOMING NEGOTIATION MEETING IN COSTA RICA. FOR THIS MEETING, WE HAVE INCLUDED IN OUR PEACE PROPOSAL AN AGREEMENT ON A CEASE-FIRE BASED ON THE FOLLOWING POINTS: REFORMS TO THE JUDICIAL SYSTEM; CESSATION OF REPRESSION; TRIAL OF BOTH THOSE GUILTY OF THE MURDER OF MONSIGNOR ARNULFO ROMERO AND THOSE FOUND TO BE MEMBERS OF THE DEATH SQUADS; ENFORCEMENT OF THE 1980 ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL REFORMS; AND SUSPENSION OF THE ECONOMIC MEASURES THAT EXACERBATE THE CRISIS AND THE WAR; PURGE OF THE ARMY; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS; HOLDING THE 1991 ELECTIONS AHEAD OF SCHEDULE; MINIMUM OPERATIONAL GUARANTEES TO ESTABLISH GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS FOR THE FORCES TO MAINTAIN AN EFFECTIVE CEASE-FIRE.</p><p>AFTER STRONG OPPOSITION TO THE PRESENCE OF THE UN AND OAS SECRETARY GENERALS' REPRESENTATIVES, WHO WILL SERVE AS WITNESSES AT THE DIALOGUE TABLE, CRISTIANI AGREED TO INVITE THEM TO THE COSTA RICA MEETING. WE HOPE HE KEEPS HIS WORD BECAUSE THIS WILL LEND SERIOUSNESS TO THE PROCESS AND GUARANTEE THE NEGOTIATIONS INITIATED IN MEXICO.</p><p>SIGNED THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND</p></body></html>