<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0031"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0031"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAVANA (CUBA)"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0031</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0031</p><p>HAVANA (CUBA), 19 AUG 89 (HACIENDO RADIO) -- [COMMENTARY] [ORLANDO CONTRERAS] [TEXT] DURING THE PAST FEW DAYS, VIOLENCE IN COLOMBIA HAS TAKEN SPECTACULAR TURNS. ACCORDING TO A REPORT WHICH CITES RELIABLE SOURCES, IT SEEMS THAT THE HAND OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS IS BEHIND THE ASSASSINATIONS OF JUDGE CARLOS VALENCIA, OF THE BOGOTA [WORDS INDISTINCT], WHICH OCCURRED YESTERDAY [18 AUGUST]. THE COLOMBIAN DRUG MAFIA HAS CREATED A GREAT MONEY AND CRIME EMPIRE IN COLOMBIA WITH POWERFUL RAMIFICATIONS OUTSIDE ITS BORDERS, ESPECIALLY IN THE UNITED STATES -- THE MAIN CONSUMER OF COCAINE AND OTHER DRUGS IN THE WORLD.</p><p>YESTERDAY [18 AUGUST], VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ SPOKE ON THE PHONE WITH HIS COLOMBIAN COUNTERPART, VIRGILIO BARCO, AND IT IS SAID THAT THE MAIN SUBJECT OF THEIR CONVERSATION WAS THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN YOUTH DELINQUENCY AND DRUG TRAFFICKING. IT IS IMPORTANT TO NOTE THE WORDS OF VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ. WE MUST REFLECT, SAID CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ, ON THE NEED FOR US, ALL VENEZUELANS, TO FACE DRUG TRAFFICKING IN VENEZUELA. WE MUST ALSO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT DRUG TRAFFICKING IS THE ABOMINABLE CRIME OF OUR TIMES, AND THAT THERE CANNOT BE ANY HESITATION OR COMPASSION TOWARD DRUG TRAFFICKERS. THOSE ARE THE WORDS OF VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ.</p><p>IN REALITY, THE DRUG TRAFFICKING DRAMA IS SERIOUSLY AFFECTING SEVERAL LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES. WE HAVE THE DRAMATIC CASE OF COLOMBIA, BUT THE SITUATION ALSO EXISTS IN VENEZUELA, BOLIVIA, PERU, WELL, IN SEVERAL LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES. NOW, THE SOLUTION TO THAT PROBLEM...[REPHRASES] AS HAS BEEN POINTED OUT BY LATIN AMERICANS THEMSELVES AND THEIR MOST PROMINENT FIGURES, THE FINAL SOLUTION TO THE DRAMATIC DRUG TRAFFICKING PROBLEM MUST BE BASED ON PUTTING AN END TO THE CONSUMPTION OF DRUGS. THAT IS THE MAIN STUMBLING BLOCK IN THE FIGHT AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING. THE UNITED STATES IS THE MAIN CONSUMPTION CENTER OF DRUGS IN THE WORLD, AND U.S. POLICY ON DRUG TRAFFICKING IS NOT CONSISTENT WITH THE NEED TO PUT AN END AND ACTIVELY REPRESS THE CONSUMPTION OF DRUGS. U.S. POLICY, AND ALL THIS IS VERY WELL KNOWN IN LATIN AMERICA, IS BASED ON DESTROYING THE PLANTATIONS OF A NATIVE PLANT IN THE CONTINENT, WHICH IS COCA. PRESIDENTS, POLITICAL AND SOCIAL FIGURES OF THE CONTINENT HAVE SAID THAT THE SOLUTION IS NOT BASED ON THE DESTRUCTION OF A NATIVE PLANT BUT IN ACTIVE FIGHT AGAINST DRUG CONSUMPTION.</p><p>I THINK THAT THE STATEMENTS MADE BY THE PRESIDENT OF VENEZUELA AND THE DRAMATIC SITUATION THAT COLOMBIA IS FACING THESE DAYS CONFIRM THAT THE POLICY FOR FIGHTING DRUG TRAFFICKING MUST BE TENACIOUS, STRONG, WITHOUT HESITATION AND COMPASSION. IT MUST ALSO BE BASED ON ENDING DRUG CONSUMPTION BY THE UNITED STATES -- THE MAIN DRUG CONSUMER OF THE WORLD -- WHICH LIVES PRECISELY FROM DRUG CONSUMPTION AND ITS BUSINESS.</p></body></html>