<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0055"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0055"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0055</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0055</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 NOV 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS ASSURED TODAY THEY HAVE "CONSOLIDATED" FOUR OF THE MOST DENSELY POPULATED NEIGHBORHOODS IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR WHERE SOME 300,000 PERSONS LIVE.</p><p>COMMANDER AMILCAR, ONE OF THE REBEL CHIEFS WHO HAS OCCUPIED THE ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD, TOLD ACAN - EFE THAT HE AND HIS MEN CAME TO SAN SALVADOR "PREPARED, AND WITH SUFFICIENT AMMUNITION TO REMAIN FOR SEVERAL DAYS."</p><p>IN A GENERAL ASSESEMENT OF THE GUERRILLA OFFENSIVE, THE YOUNG COMMANDER SAID THAT THE ARMY "CANNOT ENTER" THE "AREA UNDER REBEL CONTROL," BUT IT IS ATTACKING THE REBELS FROM THE NATIONAL POLICE HEADQUARTERS AND USING HELICOPTER GUNSHIPS.</p><p>"HOWEVER, THE PEOPLE HAVE THE TRUMP CARD (FOR THE SUCCESS OF THE OFFENSIVE)," HE ADDED.</p><p>AMILCAR, WHO IS 26-YEARS-AGO AND LOOKS LIKE A STUDENT, WAS WALKING DOWN THE HALLWAYS OF ONE OF THE CRAMPED FIVE-STORY APARTMENT BUILDINGS IN ZACAMIL WHILE EXPLAINING THAT THE GOAL OF THE REBEL OFFENSIVE IS "TO SEEK OPTIONS FOR BUILDING PEACE IN EL SALVADOR."</p><p>HE ADDED THAT THE GUERRILLAS SEEK "TO DISRUPT THE DIALOGUE CONDITIONS, AND GO TO THE CONVERSATIONS WITH A POLITICAL AND MILITARY ADVANTAGE SO THAT THE GOVERNMENT WILL AGREE WITH US ON WHAT THE PEOPLE WANT: DEMOCRACY, A PEOPLE'S ECONOMIC POLICY, AND A PURGE IN THE ARMED FORCES, AMONG OTHER THINGS."</p><p>THE GUERRILLAS AND THE GOVERNMENT OF EL SALVADOR HAVE HELD TWO MEETINGS IN RECENT MONTHS, THE FIRST ONE IN MEXICO AND THE SECOND ONE IN COSTA RICA. A THIRD MEETING WAS TO BE HELD SHORTLY IN VENEZUELA, BUT THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] ANNOUNCED THAT IT WILL NOT ATTEND.</p><p>THE FMLN LAUNCHED THE MOST IMPORTANT MILITARY OFFENSIVE SINCE 1981 ON 11 NOVEMBER, ATTACKING 50 MILITARY POSITIONS, 20 OF THEM IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>IN THE FIRST 24 HOURS, THE OFFENSIVE HAS CAUSED NEARLY 300 CASUALTIES (127 DEAD AND 155 WOUNDED) ACCORDING TO THE ARMY, AND OVER 400 CASUALTIES ACCORDING TO THE GUERRILLAS.</p><p>THE OFFENSIVE HAS BEEN NAMED "OUT WITH THE FASCISTS! FEBE ELIZABETH LIVES!" IN HOMAGE TO A TRADE UNION LEADER KILLED 13 DAYS AGO ALONG WITH NINE OTHER WORKERS IN A DYNAMITE EXPLOSION IN THE CAPITAL CITY ATTRIBUTED TO THE ULTRARIGHTIST DEATH SQUADS.</p><p>ARMED WITH AN AUTOMATIC AK-47 RIFLE, AMILCAR SAID THAT THE FMLN "HAS CONSOLIDATED THE ZACAMIL, CUSCATANCINGO, MEJICANOS, AND PANAMA NEIGHBORHOODS, AND WE HAVE BESIEGED THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE."</p><p>ALL THE PLACES HE MENTIONED ARE IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR, WHERE THE BLOODIEST CLASHES BETWEEN THE GUERRILLAS AND THE GOVERNMENT TROOPS HAVE TAKEN PLACE.</p><p>AT NIGHTFALL ON 12 NOVEMBER AND PRIOR TO THE CURFEW THAT BEGINS AT 2000 (0200 GMT), THE RESIDENTS OF ZACAMIL WERE OUTSIDE THEIR BUILDINGS CARRYING CANDLES AS THERE IS NO ELECTRICITY.</p><p>AMILCAR ASSURED THAT THE GUERRILLAS HAVE INFLICTED AT LEAST 18 CASUALTIES ON THE ARMED FORCES IN THAT AREA AND HAVE SEIZED ABOUT 20 RIFLES AND 1 M-60 MACHINEGUN.</p><p>"THIS OFFENSIVE IS A MILITARY AND POLITICAL ACHIEVEMENT. AS A RESULT OF THE CLOSING OF THE COMALAPA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, THE MAIN AIRPORT OF THE COUNTRY, WE HAVE SUCCEEDED IN LETTING THE WORLD THAT WE ARE AT WAR AND ARE AN EMERGING POWER," THE REBEL COMMANDER SAID.</p><p>COMALAPA AIRPORT, LOCATED 50 KM SOUTH OF SAN SALVADOR, WAS CLOSED "FOR SECURITY REASONS."</p><p>ACORDING TO THE FMLN CLANDESTINE STATION, RADIO VENCEREMOS, THE GUERRILLA FIGHTERS DESTROYED THREE MILITARY HELICOPTERS ON THE GROUND AND CAUSED SOME DAMAGE ON THE AIRPORTS'S MAIN LANDING STRIP.</p><p>REFERRING TO THE GOVERNMENT'S DECISION TO IMPOSE A CURFEW AND A NATIONWIDE STATE OF SIEGE EFFECTIVE TONIGHT, COMMANDER AMILCAR SAID: "WE HAD ALREADY TAKEN THIS INTO CONSIDERATION WHEN WE LAUNCHED THE OFFENSIVE."</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT "CANNOT ACT INDISCRIMINATELY AGAINST THE CIVILIAN POPULATION," AMILCAR SAID; ADDING THAT "THE CITIZENS' RIGHTS WERE SUSPENDED TO BOMB THE PLACES TAKEN OVER BY OUR FORCES."</p><p>THE PEOPLE OF ZACAMIL AND OTHER NEIGHBORHOODS LOCATED NORTH OF THE CAPITAL HAVE LIVED IN TERROR SINCE SATURDAY, 11 NOVEMBER, WHEN THEY WERE TRAPPED IN THE CROSSFIRE BETWEEN THE REBELS AND THE MILITARY, SUBJECTED TO THE AIR RAIDS AND THE THREAT THAT LIVING WITH THE GUERRILLA MEMBERS REPRESENTS TO THEM.</p><p>AT LEAST TWO CIVILIANS HAVE DIED IN ZACAMIL AND FIVE MORE HAVE BEEN WOUNDED, INCLUDING TWO CHILDREN, AS A RESULT OF THE ARMED CLASHES.</p></body></html>