<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0086"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0086"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0086</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0086</p><p>NO CITY, NO DATE (PARIS AFP) -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] "WHILE FARC COMPLIED AND CONTINUES TO COMPLY WITH THE UNILATERAL CEASE-FIRE, THE ARMY HAS BEEN CONDUCTING MILITARY OFFENSIVES AGAINST SEVERAL FARC FRONTS, SUCH AS 1, 5, 10, 26, 38, 24, 18, 11, 23, 19, 41, 46, AND OTHERS.</p><p>"FARC, HOWEVER, PERSISTS IN ITS EFFORT TO COMPLY WITH ITS PLEDGED WORD, NATURALLY WITHOUT RELINQUISHING ITS LEGITIMATE DEFENSE WHEN IT COMES TO MILITARY OPERATIONS," THE LETTER TO THE NOTABLES ADDED.</p><p>"OUR SAYING THAT THROUGH YOU WE ARE PROPOSING TO THE GOVERNMENT A CEASE-FIRE SO THE MARCH LEGISLATIVE ELECTIONS AND THE MAY PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS CAN BE HELD IN A CLIMATE OF PEACE AND DEMOCRATIC GUARANTEES DOES NOT CHANGE OUR PREVIOUS STAND REGARDING OUR UNILATERAL CEASE-FIRE.</p><p>"WE ARE NOW PROPOSING THAT THIS CEASE-FIRE BE GENERAL DURING THE ELECTIONS AND THAT THE EMINENT ADDRESSEES OF THE LETTER BECOME SUPERVISORS OF WHAT COULD BE A NEW PROCESS OF RECONCILIATION AND PEACE IN THE COLOMBIAN FAMILY," THE LETTER STATED.</p><p>THE REBEL LEADERS SAID THAT, BECAUSE NEW DISAGREEMENTS AND CONFLICTS HAVE APPEARED IN THE MIDST OF A CRISIS NEVER BEFORE HEARD OF IN THE COUNTRY, "WE ARE INSISTING ON THIS GENERAL CEASE-FIRE PROPOSAL."</p><p>THE LETTER SAID FURTHER: "BECAUSE, FAR FROM DIMINISHING, CRIMES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER, SUCH AS ABDUCTIONS, EXTORTION, AND THREATS, NOT ONLY HAVE INCREASED IN THE PAST FEW MONTHS BUT PREVAIL IN VARIOUS AREAS OF COLOMBIA, WE COULD HARDLY ASK THE ARMED FORCES TO STOP THEIR FUNCTIONS OF PROTECTING THE LIVES AND PROPERTIES OF THE PEOPLE.</p><p>"WE THINK IT IS NECESSARY TO CLARIFY THAT THERE IS A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE POLICE CASES AND THOSE OF PUBLIC ORDER THAT ARE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE ARMED FORCES, ACCORDING TO THE CONSTITUTION. SIMILARLY, WE MUST CLARIFY THAT KIDNAPPINGS, EXTORTION, AND THREATS ARE NOT PART OF THE POLICY OF THE FARC STAFF.</p><p>"WE ARE HEREBY PROPOSING TO THE EMINENT SUPERVISORS TO JOIN US IN THE SEARCH FOR WAYS LEADING TO PEACE AND INDEPENDENT PROGRESS IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>"FARC STAFF, IN THE MOUNTAINS OF COLOMBIA. MANUEL MARULANDA, ALIAS "TIROFIJO," JACOBO ARENAS, ALFONSO CANO, RAUL REYES, AND TIMOLEON JIMENEZ."</p></body></html>