<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0063"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0063"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0063</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0063</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] A FASCIST IDEOLOGY HAS INFILTRATED THE WHITE HOUSE AND NO ONE SHOULD BE SURPRISED BECAUSE IT COINCIDES WITH THE ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] IDEOLOGY. THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAS ACKNOWLEDGED THE BOMBINGS AFTER CYNICALLY SAYING IT KNEW NOTHING ABOUT THEM. HOWEVER, THAT ACKNOWLEDGEMENT IS EVEN MORE HAIR-RAISING THAN THE DENIAL. HEAR US WELL: THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAS STATED THAT IT SUPPORTS THE GOVERNMENT TROOPS' EFFORTS TO CRUSH THE OFFENSIVE WHICH HAS CAUSED SO MANY PERSONAL TRAGEDIES; AND IT PRAISED THE ARMY FOR DECREEING STRICT LAWS TO PREVENT CIVILIAN CASUALTIES.</p><p>WE ALSO HEAR THE PET EXPRESSION THAT THE FMLN IS USING CIVILIANS TO PROTECT ITS FIGHTERS, AND THE PRINCIPLE OF REMOVING THE PEOPLE FROM THEIR ENVIRONMENT IS UNSCRUPULOUSLY APPLIED ONCE MORE. THIS IS WHY THE NORTHERN PART OF THE COUNTRY WAS DESTROYED, LEAVING ENTIRE TOWNS IN RUINS -- AND NOW LARGE AREAS OF THE COUNTRY'S MOST IMPORTANT CITIES ARE BEING DESTROYED. ONE DAY THOSE RUINS WILL BECOME THE EVIDENCE WE WILL SHOW OUR CHILDREN TO PROVE THAT FASCISM ONCE EXISTED IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>HOWEVER, THE U.S. IMPERIALISM'S CLUMSINESS GOES EVEN FURTHER. THE NORTH AMERICANS APPARENTLY WANT TO BECOME INVOLVED IN A LARGE-SCALE CONFLICT -- FOR THE SAKE OF A FEW DEATH SQUAD MEMBERS WHO HAVE ALREADY EARNED THE WORLD'S SCORN -- GIVEN THE DECISION TO SEND U.S. PILOTS TO BOMB THE CIVILIAN POPULATION BY NIGHT. THE FASCIST SALVADORAN DICTATORSHIP HAS UNLEASHED THE BRUTAL TACTICS USED BY SOMOZA BEFORE LEAVING POWER. ON THAT OCCASION THE U.S. IMPERIALISM TURNED ITS BACK ON THE TYRANT.</p><p>THE UNITED STATES' FOREIGN POLICY HAVE NEVER STOOPED SO LOW AND THE DECISIONS ADOPTED BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAVE NEVER BROUGHT THE POSSIBILITY OF A REGIONAL CONFLICT SO CLOSE. WHAT DOES THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT THINK ABOUT THE AIRPLANES BEING FLOWN BY U.S. PILOTS ONLY A FEW HUNDRED KM FROM ITS BORDER? WHAT WILL HAPPEN IF GUATEMALA CONTINUES TO INVOLVE ITSELF IN THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT? THE CONSEQUENCES ARE UNFORESEEABLE. THE U.S. IMPERIALISM HAS SOILED ITS HANDS WITH A NEW GENOCIDE IN EL SALVADOR. THE U.S. PEOPLE SHOULD DEEPLY REFLECT ABOUT THIS AND STOP THEIR GOVERNMENT FROM PROVOKING CONTEMPT OF THAT NATION -- WHICH IS BEING DISINFORMED AND INTOXICATED BY THE ANTI-COMMUNIST PROPAGANDA.</p><p>LARGE GROUPS OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN'S PEOPLE, THE BEST SONS OF THE UNITED STATES, HAVE REACTED AND HAVE TAKEN TO THE STREETS --DEEP INSIDE THE U.S. IMPERIALISM'S HEART. SOON, VERY SOON, THIS WILL BECOME AN UNSTOPPABLE SURGE. THE U.S. GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGIC GOAL IS CLEAR: THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. THE U.S. GOVERNMENT WANTS THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE TO [WORDS INDISTINCT]. TO QUOTE MONSIGNOR [OSCAR ARNULFO] ROMERO, THE ARMY -- AND IN THIS CASE THE NORTH AMERICANS -- ARE LIKE SERPENTS, WHICH ONLY BITE THE SHOELESS. YET THEY DO NOT KNOW THAT THE PEOPLE HAVE RISEN IN ANGER AND DIGNITY, AND THEY ARE COMING TO PULL OUT THE FASCIST SERPENT'S FANGS.</p></body></html>