<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0096"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0096"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0096</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0096</p><p>BOGOTA, 26 APR 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] GOOD AFTERNOON, WE HAVE JUST RECEIVED A STATEMENT ISSUED BY PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS CONCERNING THE MURDER OF MR. CARLOS PIZARRO LEONGOMEZ. THE MESSAGE READS AS FOLLOWS:</p><p>CARLOS PIZARRO'S MURDER IS A MONSTROUS CRIME THAT HAS CUT SHORT THE LIFE OF A MAN WHO HAD SHOWN HIS WILL FOR PEACE AND HIS COMMITMENT TO COLOMBIA. THE CRIME WAS DIRECTED AT HINDERING THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ELECTORAL PROCESS AND DESTROYING THE RECONCILIATION PROCESS THAT THE GOVERNMENT AND M-19 [19 APRIL MOVEMENT] CAREFULLY CONSTRUCTED, SURPASSING MANY OBSTACLES. IN THIS CASE, AS IN MANY OTHERS, THIS PAINFUL TRAGEDY SHOULD SERVE TO CONSOLIDATE THE IDEALS OF PEACE AND PLURALISM FOR WHICH SO MANY COLOMBIANS HAVE STRUGGLED -- ONE OF THEM, CARLOS PIZARRO. IT SHOULD SERVE TO REASSERT OUR REPUDIATION OF VIOLENCE AND OUR FAITH IN DEMOCRATIC PROCEDURES.</p><p>FURTHER ON THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE NOTES:</p><p>PIZARRO'S RELATIVES AND HIS FOLLOWERS KNOW THAT THE GOVERNMENT, AND I PERSONALLY, FEEL STRONG WRATH AND SADNESS, BUT WE WILL NOT BE DISCOURAGED. WE WILL UPHOLD THE BANNERS OF RECONCILIATION, PLURALISM, AND THE RIGHT TO FREELY AND PEACEFULLY EXPRESS ANY IDEA. WE WILL ALSO CONTINUE TO UNMASK AND COMBAT ENEMIES OF PEACE.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT ADDS IN HIS MESSAGE:</p><p>I INTERPRET THE DESIRE OF ALL COLOMBIANS WHO ADMIRED CARLOS PIZARRO'S DEMOCRATIC VOCATION, BY WARNING THOSE WHO ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS TRAGIC MURDER THAT THEY WILL NOT MANAGE TO DESTROY WHAT HAS BEEN WORKED FOR SO HARD AND WITH THE SUPPORT OF POLITICAL FORCES AND THE PEOPLE WHO VOTED FOR PEACE ON 11 MARCH TO OPEN A ROAD FOR PEACE THAT IS CLEAR, POSSIBLE, AND DEFINED.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE CONTINUES:</p><p>YOU KNOW THAT DURING THIS PEACE PROCESS, MANY ENEMIES AND DIFFICULTIES WERE SURPASSED, BUT NONE HAS BEEN SO LARGE AS THIS TRAGEDY THAT HAS SHAKEN ALL COLOMBIANS. THE OBLIGATION THAT LIES BEFORE US IS TO KEEP OPEN THE ROAD TO PEACE THAT THE MURDERERS OF CARLOS PIZARRO WANT TO DESTROY. ARTICLE 95 OF THE ELECTORAL CODE INDICATES THAT WHEN A PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE DIES, ANOTHER PERSON IN HIS OWN MOVEMENT HAS THE RIGHT TO TAKE HIS PLACE. IN COMPLIANCE WITH THIS NORM, THE GOVERNMENT WILL OFFER EVERY FACILITY FOR THE REGISTRY OF A NEW M-19 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE, SO THAT HE CAN CONTINUE TO HOIST THE FLAGS OF PEACE AND PLURALISM AS IS PROPER FOR A DEMOCRATIC DEBATE.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT ALSO SAYS IN HIS MESSAGE:</p><p>I HAVE ASKED THE GOVERNMENT MINISTER AND THE PEACE ADVISER TO MEET AS SOON AS POSSIBLE WITH M-19 REPRESENTATIVES SO THAT TOGETHER THEY MAY STUDY ALTERNATIVES TO CONFRONT SUCH A SERIOUS SITUATION. AS SOON AS POSSIBLE, THE GOVERNMENT MINISTER WILL ALSO DIRECT CONTACTS WITH THE REST OF THE POLITICAL FORCES TO REQUEST THEIR OPINIONS ABOUT THE PRESENT SITUATION AND TO CONTINUE TO GIVE ALL THE NECESSARY GUARANTEES SO THAT THE ELECTORAL PROCESS MAY DEVELOP ACCORDING TO WHAT IS ESTABLISHED IN THE CONSTITUTION AND OUR LAWS.</p><p>THE MESSAGE ENDS:</p><p>I INVITE ALL COLOMBIANS WHO ARE TIRED OF SO MUCH VIOLENCE TO COME TO THE POLLS IN THE NEXT ELECTIONS AND VOTE FOR PEACE AND PLURALISM. I INVITE ALL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL FORCES TO JOIN IN SOLIDARITY WITH THE ELECTORAL PROCESS AND DEFEND THE INSTITUTIONS THAT ARE THREATENED BY VIOLENCE. IT IS TIME FOR GOOD SENSE AND PRUDENCE. IT IS TIME TO RISE TO THE OCCASION AND SHOW OUR COMMITMENT TO DEMOCRACY.</p><p>THIS IS THE TEXT OF PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO'S MESSAGE ON THE MURDER MR. CARLOS PIZARRO LEONGOMEZ.</p></body></html>