<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0059"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0059"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0059</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0059</p><p>LA PAZ, 15 NOV 89 (LA RED PANAMERICANA) -- [EXCERPT] EARLY THIS MORNING THE GOVERNMENT DECREED A STATE OF SIEGE THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY TO END THE SOCIAL CRISIS AND TO PROTECT THE INTERNAL ORDER, WHICH HAS BEEN DISRUPTED OVER THE PAST FEW HOURS. THIS REPORT IS INCLUDED IN A GOVERNMENT DECREE APPROVED BY PRESIDENT PAZ ZAMORA.</p><p>ACCORDING TO INTERIOR MINISTRY UNDER SECRETARY RAUL LOAYZA, POLICE ARRESTED 500 TEACHERS AND EDUCATION LEADERS IN THE NINE DEPARTMENTAL CAPITALS, THUS THWARTING THE EXTENDED HUNGER STRIKE.</p><p>THE STRIKE BY TEACHERS, WHO HAVE BEEN DEMANDING A BONUS OF 300 BOLIVIAN PESOS, HAS UNLEASHED VIOLENT STREET CONFRONTATIONS OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS AND AT LEAST FOUR BOMBINGS.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT, WHICH HAS BEEN BESIEGED BY A WAVE OF SOCIAL DEMANDS AND PRESSURED BY THE 80,000 TEACHERS, HAS STATED THAT THESE DEMONSTRATIONS ARE UNDERMINING DEMOCRATIC STABILITY. IT ADDED THAT DESPITE EFFORTS TO FIND A PATH TO PEACEFUL COEXISTENCE AND DIALOGUE, IT HAS NOT BEEN POSSIBLE TO PREVENT RADICAL GROUPS INTERESTED IN THE UNION LEADERSHIP FROM PUBLICLY CHALLENGING THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT DECREE STATES THAT IT WILL GUARANTEE THE 3 DECEMBER MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS AND PROTECT THE CITIZENS' RIGHT TO VOTE.</p><p>A FEW MINUTES BEFORE THE RELEASE OF THIS DECREE TO THE PRESS, POLICE PATROLS RAIDED THE CENTERS WHERE THE HUNGER STRIKES WERE TAKING PLACE. POLICE USED EXCESSIVE FORCE IN THESE RAIDS.</p><p>THE 250 STRIKERS ARRESTED IN LA PAZ WERE TAKEN IN TRUCKS AND BUSES OF THE POLICE, THE AIR FORCE, AND OTHER STATE INSTITUTIONS, TO THE EL ELTO AIR BASE.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT REPORTED THAT 250 STRIKERS WERE ALSO ARRESTED IN THE INTERIOR OF THE COUNTRY. IT ADDED THAT THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE STRIKE WILL BE SENT TO DIFFERENT REGIONS OF THE COUNTRY. OTHER, LESS RESPONSIBLE GROUPS OF STRIKERS WILL BE TRIED BY THE REGULAR COURTS. OTHERS WILL BE RELEASED.</p><p>THE THREE LA PAZ TEACHERS' LEADERS HAVE BEEN SENT TO DIFFERENT HOSPITALS IN LA PAZ AND PLACED IN INTENSIVE CARE. THEY ARE MIGUEL LORA, TELMO ROMAN, AND LUIS ALVAREZ, WHO ARE NOT FACING ANY RISK OF DEATH, THE INTERIOR MINISTRY UNDER SECRETARY STATED. HE WARNED THAT THE BOLIVIAN LABOR CONFEDERATION UNDERGROUND SESSIONS WILL BE ILLEGAL, AND THEY ARE NOT THE MOST APPROPRIATE FOR LABOR ORGANIZATIONS, HE SAID.</p><p>THIS IS THE FIRST SOCIAL CRISIS PRESIDENT PAZ ZAMORA HAS HAD TO FACE SINCE HE ASSUMED POWER ALMOST 100 DAYS AGO.</p></body></html>