<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0090"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0090"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0090</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0090</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 6 MAR 90 (TELEONCE TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE EMBASSY COMMUNIQUE POINTS OUT THAT THE UNITED STATES DID NOT SUBMIT EITHER ONE OF THE TWO HUMAN RIGHTS RESOLUTIONS ON GUATEMALA THAT ARE CURRENTLY UNDER DISCUSSION IN GENEVA. ACCORDING TO THE OBSERVERS, THIS CLARIFICATION CAME IN REPLY TO STATEMENTS MADE BY CEREZO THAT THE U.S. POSITION IN THIS REGARD DIFFERS FROM THAT OF MOST COUNTRIES WITHIN THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CEREZO] ALL THESE ACTIONS [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE UNITED STATES POINTING THE FINGER TO HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES ARE AIMED AT [WORD INDISTINCT] IN GENEVA, BECAUSE I HAVE THE IMPRESSION THAT WHAT IT WANTS AT THIS TIME IS TO HAVE GUATEMALA CONDEMNED AND TO A CERTAIN EXTENT TARNISH OUR INTERNATIONAL IMAGE, BECAUSE THE SUCCESS OF THE ESQUIPULAS II PLAN GAVE GUATEMALA, AS AN AUTONOMOUS AND INDEPENDENT COUNTRY, A LOT OF ROOM FOR ACTION.</p><p>THAT IS WHAT IT WANTS TO DO, BECAUSE IT IS NOT GOOD FOR LARGE COUNTRIES TO SEE COUNTRIES LIKE GUATEMALA, WITH A CERTAIN DEGREE OF AUTONOMY AND INDEPENDENCE, ACHIEVE HISTORIC SUCCESSES BY SHOWING THAT OUR COUNTRY IS RIGHT IN DISCUSSIONS WITH CERTAIN U.S. GROUPS. THEY NOW WANT [WORDS INDISTINCT]. MY PERSONAL OPINION IS THAT THEY NOW SORT OF WANT TO GET BACK AT US FOR THE ESQUIPULAS II PLAN. [END RECORDING]</p><p>IN REPLY TO THESE STATEMENTS BY PRESIDENT CEREZO, THE U.S. EMBASSY POINTED OUT IN ITS COMMUNIQUE OF 6 MARCH THAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAD SUPPORTED THE ESQUIPULAS II PEACE PROCESS FROM THE VERY BEGINNING. IT ADDED THAT EVER SINCE THE SIGNING OF THE ESQUIPULAS ACCORD, GUATEMALA HAS RECEIVED $600 MILLION IN U.S. AID. THIS SHOWS, ACCORDING TO THE EMBASSY, THAT U.S. SUPPORT FOR GUATEMALAN DEMOCRACY CONTINUED TO BE STRONG AFTER THE SIGNING OF THE ESQUIPULAS II DOCUMENT.</p><p>IN ANY CASE, FROM PRESIDENT CEREZO'S PERSPECTIVE THE U.S. ATTITUDE IN THIS SITUATION REFLECTS THE TRADITIONAL INCLINATION OF THAT COUNTRY'S GOVERNMENTS THROUGHOUT HISTORY TO DICTATE RULES TO OTHER NATIONS REGARDING WHAT THEY SHOULD DO. CEREZO COMPARED GUATEMALA'S SITUATION IN MATTERS OF CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION TO THE SITUATION IN SEVERAL U.S. CITIES WHERE THE POLICE ARE UNABLE TO CONTROL CRIME. AS AN EXAMPLE, HE CITED WASHINGTON, D.C., WHERE ASSAULTS, MURDERS, AND CRIMES FREQUENTLY RELATED TO DRUG CONSUMPTION HAVE REACHED VERY ASTONISHING LEVELS IN THE PAST FEW YEARS.</p><p>AS FOR THE DEPARTURE OF AMBASSADOR STROOK, CEREZO SAID THAT THE DIPLOMAT HAS NOT BEEN WITHDRAWN FROM GUATEMALA, BUT RETURNED TO THE UNITED STATES FOR CONSULTATIONS BY ORDER OF THE STATE DEPARTMENT. IN STATEMENTS MADE MINUTES AFTER RECEIVING THE CREDENTIALS OF THE NEW FRG AMBASSADOR, HOWEVER, CEREZO SAID THAT HIS RETURN WAS, TO A CERTAIN EXTENT, DUE TO A DECISION WE MADE.</p></body></html>