<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0098"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0098"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0098</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0098</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 7 MAY 90 (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [REPORT] [JULIO ERNESTO RODRIGUEZ] [TEXT] SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI STATED TODAY THAT IT WOULD BE NO PROBLEM FOR THE FOURTH PENAL JUDGE, WHO IS IN CHARGE OF THE CASE OF THE JESUITS MURDERED BY A GROUP OF SOLDIERS, TO ORDER THAT CADETS WHO ARE TAKING COURSES ABROAD RETURN TO THE COUNTRY. IT WAS RECENTLY REPORTED THAT SEVERAL OFFICERS WHO TESTIFIED DURING THESE INVESTIGATIONS ARE NOW ATTENDING TRAINING COURSES ABROAD. IT WAS ALSO REPORTED THAT THE MILITARY SCHOOL'S REGISTRATION BOOK FOR PERSONS ENTERING OR LEAVING THE PREMISES HAD BEEN LOST, INCLUDING THE PAGES THAT CORRESPOND TO NOVEMBER 1989. TODAY, CRISTIANI TALKED ABOUT THIS MATTER AND SAID THE JUDGE SHOULD CONTINUE TO INVESTIGATE AND NOT JUST MAKE STATEMENTS CONCERNING THE PROBLEMS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CRISTIANI] I DO NOT BELIEVE THERE IS ANY PROBLEM IN THE OFFICERS RETURNING TO THE COUNTRY IF A JUDGE ORDERS THAT THEY COME TO TESTIFY. ALL THAT IS REQUIRED IS FOR THE JUDGE TO SUMMON THEM; THEY WOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE COUNTRY TO TESTIFY AND, AFTER THAT, RETURNED TO THEIR TRAINING COURSES. GROUPS OF SOLDIERS ARE FREQUENTLY SENT ABROAD TO TAKE TRAINING COURSES TO MAKE THEM MORE PROFESSIONAL; THIS APPLIES NOT ONLY TO PERSONNEL FROM THE MILITARY SCHOOL, BUT FROM ALL ARMED FORCES UNITS.</p><p>CONCERNING THE OTHER MATTER, THE JUDGE HAS TO INVESTIGATE IT. I BELIEVE THAT INSTEAD OF JUST STAYING THERE, THE JUDGE SHOULD CONTINUE TO SEARCH FOR EVIDENCE. TELL ME, WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE IF THEY ARE BROUGHT BACK FROM SUCHITOTO OR FROM THE UNITED STATES IF THEY MUST TESTIFY BEFORE THE JUDGE? THERE IS NO DIFFERENCE AT ALL. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE PRESIDENT SPOKE TODAY AT THE EL SALVADOR MILITARY AIRPORT BEFORE HE LEFT FOR COSTA RICA TO ATTEND THE INAUGURATION CEREMONY OF PRESIDENT-ELECT RAFAEL CALDERON FOURNIER. HE ALSO SAID THAT THE UNITED STATES CONDITIONING 50 PERCENT OF THE AID GIVEN TO OUR COUNTRY COULD CAUSE THE REBEL FRONT TO INCREASE THEIR ACTIONS. HE ACCUSED THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] OF USING DIALOGUE FOR TACTICAL REASONS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CRISTIANI] WE HAVE STATED THAT AN ACTION OF THIS TYPE WOULD BE VERY UNTIMELY, AS IT COULD MAKE THE MOST RADICAL FMLN MEMBERS DECIDE TO CONTINUE THE WAR AND, THUS, HINDER THE DIALOGUE PROCESS.</p><p>[REPORTER] HOWEVER, [WORDS INDISTINCT] PRESSURE GOVERNMENT FOR THEM [WORDS INDISTINCT] WITH FMLN.</p><p>[CRISTIANI] I WOULD ASK THE QUESTION: WHO HAS ALWAYS SHOWED GOODWILL AND SINCERELY SOUGHT AN AGREEMENT AND WHO HAS NOT DONE THIS? HISTORY SHOWS THAT IN THE PAST, THE FMLN HAS USED THE PROPOSALS BY [JOSE NAPOLEON] DUARTE'S GOVERNMENT AND MY OWN FOR TACTICAL REASONS. IT HAS NOT BEEN THE GOVERNMENTS. I BELIEVE THAT THE FMLN MUST UNDERSTAND AND BE PRESSURED TO REALLY SEARCH FOR A POLITICAL SOLUTION. [END RECORDING]</p><p>ALSO TODAY, THE UN SECRETARY GENERAL AUTHORIZED A SPOKESMAN TO ANNOUNCE THAT TALKS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND FMLN WILL BE RENEWED ON 16 MAY. THE PANORAMA THAT SURROUNDS THIS NEW ENCOUNTER, HOWEVER, PRESENTS AN ENTIRELY DIFFERENT PATTERN FROM MEETINGS IN THE PAST, BECAUSE BOTH SECTORS HAVE MET WITH POLITICAL PARTIES REPRESENTED AT THE [WORD INDISTINCT]. FURTHERMORE, ALTHOUGH THE GOVERNMENT HAS NOT DONE THE SAME WITH THE COUNTRY'S SOCIAL FORCES, THE REBELS WILL TRY TO DO SO THIS WEEK. UNDOUBTEDLY, THE RESULTS THAT COULD BE OBTAINED FROM THE DIALOGUE COULD BE MUCH MORE IMPORTANT THAN THOSE OBTAINED DURING PAST NEGOTIATIONS, BECAUSE ALMOST ALL THE SECTORS THAT HAVE BECOME INVOLVED, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, IN THE NEGOTIATING DEMAND THAT THE AGREEMENTS ATTAINED BE BASED ON INTERNAL COOPERATION.</p></body></html>