<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0087"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0087"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0087</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0087</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 22 FEB 90 (SAN PEDRO SULA TIEMPO) -- [TEXT] CONTRA COMMANDER ISRAEL GALEANO, ALIAS FRANKLIN, HAS TOLD TIEMPO THAT THE ANTI-SANDINIST REBELS WILL STAY ARMED, REGARDLESS OF THE RESULTS OF THE 25 FEBRUARY ELECTIONS IN NICARAGUA, TO MAKE SURE THE DEMOCRATIC CHANGES TAKE PLACE.</p><p>"WE WILL MAINTAIN OUR ORGANIZATION INTACT EVEN IF THE UNO [NATIONAL OPPOSITION UNION] WINS, WAITING FOR PROFOUND DEMOCRATIC CHANGES AND AN END TO THE REPRESSIVE REGIME IMPOSED BY THE SANDINISTS," SAID THE CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE NICARAGUAN RESISTANCE (RN).</p><p>THIS PAST JANUARY, THE 29-YEAR-OLD GALEANO BECAME THE LEADER OF ABOUT 12,000 NICARAGUAN RIGHTIST REBELS BASED IN HONDURAS WHEN THE POST OF COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF THE RN ARMY, A POST ENRIQUE BERMUDEZ HAD HELD FOR 10 YEARS, WAS ELIMINATED.</p><p>NICARAGUA WILL HOLD ELECTIONS ON SUNDAY, 25 FEBRUARY, AND THE MAIN CANDIDATES RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT ARE DANIEL ORTEGA OF THE SANDINIST NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FSLN) AND VIOLETA DE CHAMORRO OF THE UNO.</p><p>THE REBELS, SUPPORTED BY THE UNITED STATES, HAVE URGED NICARAGUANS TO VOTE FOR THE UNO CANDIDATE.</p><p>"IF THE UNO WINS, WE WILL MAINTAIN OUR ORGANIZATION INTACT TO SEE IF ON 25 APRIL THERE IS A TOTAL TRANSFER OF POWER AND PROFOUND REFORMS, AND PARTICULARLY TO SEE IF THE REPRESSIVE SYSTEM DISAPPEARS," GALEANO SAID.</p><p>"IF THE SANDINISTS WIN OR STEAL THE ELECTIONS, THERE WILL BE A SOCIAL DISRUPTION AGAINST THE SYSTEM AND THE HARDEST STRUGGLE OF RECENT YEARS WILL TAKE PLACE," HE ADDED.</p><p>THE CONTRA MILITARY CHIEF SAID THAT "IF THE PEOPLE DO NOT ACCEPT A SANDINIST VICTORY, "WE WILL HAVE TO CONTINUE FIGHTING."</p><p>HE ASSURED THAT THE NICARAGUANS WILL NOT ACCEPT AN FSLN VICTORY IN THE 25 FEBRUARY ELECTIONS.</p><p>GALEANO ADDED THAT THE SANDINISTS HAVE DEPLOYED APPROXIMATELY 30,000 TROOPS IN THE NORTHERN NICARAGUAN DEPARTMENTS IN ORDER TO "INTIMIDATE AND MURDER" UNO FOLLOWERS AND TO PREVENT APPROXIMATELY 300,000 NICARAGUANS FROM VOTING.</p><p>GALEANO POINTED OUT THAT THE PRESS AND THE FOREIGN OBSERVERS OF THE ELECTIONS HAVE NO ACCESS TO THE AREAS WHERE THE NICARAGUAN TROOPS HAVE DEPLOYED.</p><p>"EVEN THOUGH THE FOREIGN OBSERVERS CLAIM THAT THE CAMPAIGN WAS FREELY HELD, THE PEOPLE HAVE HAD TO MAKE SACRIFICES," HE SAID.</p><p>GALEANO SAID THAT ABOUT 5,000 OF HIS MEN ARE INSIDE NICARAGUA, AND BETWEEN 10,000 TO 12,000 MEN ARE IN BASES IN HONDURAS, "NOT MOVING, BUT JUST OBSERVING THE ELECTORAL PROCESS" IN NICARAGUA.</p><p>THE REBELS IN HONDURAS ARE RECEIVING U.S. HUMANITARIAN AID IN EL PARAISO DEPARTMENT AND HAVE REJECTED A DEMOBILIZATION PLAN APPROVED BY THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS. THE REBELS CLAIM THEY DO NOT HAVE ANY GUARANTEES FOR THEIR PERSONAL SECURITY AND FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF A DEMOCRATIC PROCESS.</p><p>"THE DEMOBILIZATION IS BASED ON THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT CREATING CONDITIONS THAT WILL ENCOURAGE THE MEMBERS OF THE ARMED RN TO JOIN CIVIC LIFE," HE ADDED.</p><p>GALEANO SAID THAT THE DISMANTLING OF HIS FORCES DOES NOT "DEPEND OF A SIMPLE ELECTIONS," BUT RATHER ON "THE SANDINISTS LEAVING POWER COMPLETELY."</p><p>THE CONTRA LEADER WARNED THAT "WE CANNOT LAY DOWN OUR WEAPONS WHEN THE CAUSES THAT LED TO OUR TAKING UP ARMS HAVE NOT DISAPPEARED. THERE STILL IS REPRESSION, A LACK OF FREEDOM, AND ALL OF THIS WAS GENERATED BY THE SANDINISTS."</p><p>HE POINTED OUT THAT IN THE EVENT THE UNO SHOULD WIN THE 25 FEBRUARY ELECTIONS, "WE WOULD HAVE TO CARRY OUT A MUTUAL DEMOBILIZATION. THE NICARAGUAN PROBLEM CAN BE SOLVED WITH AN INTER-AMERICAN PEACE FORCE THAT WILL RECEIVE ALL THE WEAPONRY AND SOVIET TANKS OF THE SANDINISTS. THEN, WHEN WE ARE AT AN EVEN LEVEL OF FORCES, WE WILL TURN OVER OUR OWN WEAPONS."</p><p>THE CONTRA CHIEF SUGGESTED A NATIONAL POLICE BE CREATED IN NICARAGUA.</p><p>FRANKLIN SAID THAT THE CONTRAS ARE WILLING TO CONTINUE THE PEACE TALKS, BUT PERHAPS AFTER THE ELECTIONS, WITH THE NEW NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT.</p><p>HE ASSURED THAT THE REBEL FORCES WILL NOT CARRY OUT "ANY OFFENSIVE OPERATIONS BEFORE, DURING, OR AFTER THE ELECTIONS, AND WILL WAIT AND SEE IF THERE ARE CHANGES IN NICARAGUA."</p><p>HE SAID THAT THE CONTRAS ARE WILLING TO LEAVE THEIR CAMPS IN YAMALES IF REQUESTED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF RAFAEL LEONARDO CALLEJAS.</p><p>"IF POLITICAL CONDITIONS DO NOT ALLOW US TO REMAIN, WE WILL LEAVE (FOR NICARAGUA), BUT OUR REFUGEEES WILL STAY, AS REFUGEES," HE ADDED.</p><p>THE CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE CONTRAS SAID THAT HIS FORCES WILL NOT ATTACK THE UN PEACE OBSERVERS IN THE HONDURAN-NICARAGUAN BORDER AREA.</p><p>HE SAID THAT RN RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES ARE NORMAL, BUT DECLINED TO COMMENT ON THE OUSTING OF BERMUDEZ, ARGUING THAT THIS IS A FAIT ACCOMPLI.</p></body></html>