<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0095"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0095"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0095</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0095</p><p>NO CITY, NO DATE (FBIS) -- [EDITORIAL REPORT] [TEXT] FOLLOWING IS A COMPILATION OF REPORTS ON DRUG SEIZURES AND ARRESTS RELATED TO DRUG TRAFFICKING IN BUREAU COVERAGE AREA FROM 15 TO 21 APRIL.</p><p>COLOMBIA</p><p>THE COLOMBIAN POLICE TODAY CONFISCATED A 162 KG SHIPMENT OF PURE COCAINE FROM THE CARIBBEAN PORT OF SANTA MARTA, MAGDALENA DEPARTMENT. THE COCAINE WAS TO BE SHIPPED TO GENOA, ITALY, IT WAS OFFICIALLY REPORTED.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE PORT POLICE COMMANDER MAJOR ORLANDO REYES, THIS SHIPMENT IS ONE OF THE LARGEST CONFISCATED IN THE PAST FEW MONTHS. LAST AUGUST THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT DECLARED "WAR" ON DRUG TRAFFICKING MAFFIAS.</p><p>THE CONFISCATION OF THE COCAINE OCCURRED AS THE COLOMBIAN AUTHORITIES WERE PURSUING THREE SICILIAN GANGSTERS WHO RECENTLY CAME TO COLOMBIA TO NEGOTIATE LARGER DRUG SHIPMENTS TO EUROPE WITH THE CARTELS.</p><p>ECUADOR</p><p>EARLY ON THE MORNING OF 20 APRIL, AN ECUADORAN ARMY PATROL SEIZED A BOAT SAILING THE SAN MIGUEL RIVER AND FOUND 83 55-GALLON BARRELS OF ACETONE, WHICH IS USED TO PROCESS COCAINE. THE BOAT'S DESTINATION WAS APPARENTLY PUTUMAYO, COLOMBIA. ONE COLOMBIAN AND TWO ECUADOREANS WERE ARRESTED.</p><p>MEXICO</p><p>THE FEDERAL JUDICIAL POLICE HAS REPORTED THAT APPROXIMATELY 6.5 TONS OF MARIJUANA AND A CLANDESTINE AIRSTRIP WERE FOUND IN SAN JUAN NEPOMUCENO MUNICIPALITY IN CHIHUAHUA STATE. POLICE ARRESTED 20-YEAR OLD JOSE ANTONIO ROBLES GARCIA AND 30-YEAR OLD JOSE GUADAULUPE BENAVIDES CARBAJOLD. THE SUSPECTS HAD ATTEMPTED TO HIDE THE MARIJUANA IN PAPAYA SHIPMENTS TO THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>MEXICAN DRUG AGENTS HAVE ARRESTED U.S. CITIZEN STEVEN ANDREW HENRY FOR POSSESSION OF 8 KG OF COCAINE. THE POLICE FOUND TRACES OF COCAINE WHEN THEY SEARCHED HIS VEHICLE ON A ROAD NEAR CHETUMAL AND WHEN THEY WENT TO HIS HOUSE ON PUNTA PUNTITIC BEACH, SOUTH OF CANCUN, THEY FOUND 8 KG OF COCAINE.</p><p>FEDERAL JUDICIAL POLICE AGENTS HAVE ARRESTED FIVE MEMBERS OF A DRUG TRAFFICKING GANG AND SEIZED 1 KG OF PURE COCAINE AT A CLANDESTINE AIRSTRIP IN OCAMPO MUNICIPALITY IN COAHUILA STATE. THE POLICE ARRESTED ABELICA GARCIA SANCHEZ, FRANCISCO VASQUEZ SANCHEZ, ALFREDO VILLAREAL GUZMAN, JESUS PRESAS ARREDONDO, AND FERNANDO QUINTELA GALINDO. THE AIRSTRIP WAS BEING USED TO BRING IN DRUGS FROM COLOMBIA. THE DRUGS WERE THEN UNLOADED AND TAKEN TO THE UNITED STATES THROUGH SANTA ELENA, LOCATED 40 KM FROM PIEDRITAS.</p><p>FEDERAL JUDICIAL POLICE AGENTS HAVE ARRESTED THREE U.S. CITIZENS AND A MEXICAN WHO OPERATED A CLANDESTINE LABORATORY TO PRODUCE CRACK IN PUERTO PENASCO, SONORA STATE. JOHN MURPHY, DIANA FOSTER, DANY CHILDRES, AND JOSE GONZALEZ OLIVA WERE ARRESTED.</p><p>ATTORNEY GENERAL ENRIQUE ALVAREZ DEL CASTILLO REPORTED IN IXTAPA ON 20 APRIL THAT THE POLICE SEIZED 2.2 TONS OF PURE COCAINE WHEN THEY ARRESTED THE MEMBERS OF A DRUG TRAFFICKING GANG IN CABORCA, SONORA STATE.</p><p>THE MEXICAN POLICE HAVE DEALT A HUGE BLOW TO DRUG TRAFFICKING BY SEIZING MORE THAN 1.5 TONS OF COCAINE BASE DURING AN OPERATION IN CULIACAN, SINALOA STATE. DRUG AGENTS ARRESTED THREE MEMBERS OF THE DRUG TRAFFICKING GANG.</p><p>POLICE IN SONORA, MEXICO SEIZED 2,536 KG OF PURE COCAINE, THE LARGEST SEIZURE OF THE YEAR SO FAR, IT WAS ANNOUNCED TODAY. AT A NEWS CONFERENCE THE AUTHORITIES SAID THAT THE COCAINE WAS SEIZED BETWEEN 17 AND 19 APRIL NEAR THE TOWN OF CABORCA, WHERE POLICE DISCOVERED CLANDESTINE LANDING STRIPS, PRESUMABLY USED BY AIRPLANES COMING FROM COLOMBIA. DURING A SHOOTOUT BETWEEN POLICEMEN AND APPROXIMATELY 10 PRESUMED DRUG TRAFFICKERS, NINE OF THE LATTER ESCAPED AND ONE WAS CAPTURED. SINCE PRESIDENT SALINAS DE GORTARI TOOK OFFICE IN DECEMBER 1988, MEXICAN AUTHORITIES HAVE SEIZED MORE THAN 45 TONS OF COCAINE.</p></body></html>