<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0033"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0033"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0033</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0033</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (FBIS) -- [EDITORIAL REPORT] [CONTINUED] THE STATION ANNOUNCER THEN LISTS WAR BULLETINS FROM GUAZAPA, FROM THE WESTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY, FROM THE METROPOLITAN AREA, AND FROM THE FRANCISCO SANCHEZ EASTERN FRONT. THE ANNOUNCER REMINDS LISTENERS THAT THESE REPORTS WERE NOT INCLUDED IN THE WEEK'S EVENTS AND SAYS: "THE FIRST REPORT IS FROM THE MODESTO RAMIREZ CENTRAL FRONT, GUAZAPA AREA. AT 1000 ON 10 AUGUST, SAN CARLOS BATTALION TROOPS BELONGING TO THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE WALKED INTO A MINED FIELD, WHICH LEFT TWO SOLDIERS INJURED AT SAN JOSE GUAYABAL JURISDICTION, CUSCATLAN DEPARTMENT. AT 1800 ON 12 AUGUST, THE SAN CARLOS BATTALION CAME ACROSS MINES PLACED IN THEIR PATH AT LOS LIRIOS. ONE SOLDIER WAS KILLED AND TWO WERE SERIOUSLY INJURED. AT 1300 ON 13 AUGUST, ATLACATL BATTALION UNITS WALKED INTO A MINED FIELD, AND THERE WERE TWO CASUALTIES. AT 1330 ANOTHER ATLACATL BATTALION UNIT WALKED INTO A MINED FIELD AT CERRO CAMPANARIO, GUAZAPA HILL, CAUSING ONE MORE CASUALTY. AT 1900 ON 10 AUGUST, URBAN COMMANDOS TOOK A PATROL CAR BY SURPRISE. THEY DROPPED A GRENADE INSIDE THE CAR, INJURING FOUR AND PARTIALLY DESTROYING THE VEHICLE."</p><p>THE ANNOUNCER CONTINUES: "THIS SUCCESSFUL OPERATION TOOK PLACE OUTSIDE THE AVENIDA CINEMA IN SAN SALVADOR, SCARCELY ONE BLOCK FROM A NATIONAL GUARD GARRISON."</p><p>THE STATION ANNOUNCER LISTS ITS REPORTS FROM SANTA ANA: "AT 0415 ON 12 AUGUST WE INFLICTED FOUR CASUALTIES AMONG TROOPS BELONGING TO THE 2ND INFANTRY BRIGADE AT [WORDS INDISTINCT]. AT 1715 ANOTHER CASUALTY WAS INFLICTED AT EL PEAR FARM. AT 0130 ON 12 AUGUST WE INFLICTED ONE MORE CASUALTY AT PUERTAS NEGRAS."</p><p>THE ANNOUNCER ENDS HIS REPORT BY STATING: "THE FRANCISCO SANCHEZ EASTERN FRONT REPORTS THAT AT 1500 ON 12 AUGUST GUERRILLA UNITS ATTACKED AN ENEMY POSITION IN THE NORTHERN PART OF MORAZAN DEPARTMENT. THE CLASH LASTED 20 MINUTES AND WE INFLICTED TWO CASUALTIES ON THE ENEMY."</p><p>THE RADIO REPORTS FROM AN ANASTACIO AQUINO FRONT WAR BULLETIN, WHICH STATES THAT FMLN GUERRILLA UNITS AMBUSHED THE 1ST COMPANY OF MILITARY DETACHMENT NO 2 JR BATTALION AT LA PENA CANTON, VILLA VICTORIA JURISDICTION, CABANAS DEPARTMENT, AT 0745 ON 14 AUGUST, "KILLING SIX ENEMIES AND WOUNDING FOUR OTHERS."</p><p>THE RADIO ANNOUNCER THEN GIVES A REPORT COMING FROM THE MODESTO RAMIREZ FRONT IN CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT, WHICH STATES THAT GUERRILLA UNITS CLASHED WITH BRACAMONTE BATTALION TROOPS AT NUEVA TRINIDAD JURISDICTION AT 0900 ON 14 AUGUST, INFLICTING TWO CASUALTIES ON THE "DEMORALIZED BRACAMONTE BATTALION TROOPS."</p><p>ANOTHER REPORT SAYS THAT A GROUP OF FMLN GUERRILLAS OCCUPIED THE TOWN OF DULCE NOMBRE DE MARIA, CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT, DURING 5 HOURS AT 1500 ON 11 AUGUST.</p><p>THE RADIO STATION GOES ON TO AIR A REPORT STATING THAT GUERRILLA UNITS ATTACKED A MILITARY POST WITH MORTAR FIRE, GRENADES, AND M-16 RIFLE FIRE, "KILLING ONE ENEMY AND WOUNDING ANOTHER AT 1215 ON 13 AUGUST." THE ATTACK WAS CARRIED OUT "ONLY 100 METERS AWAY FROM A CHECKPOINT LOCATED AT THE ENTRANCE TO THE TOWN OF LA PALMA."</p><p>THE NEXT REPORT COMING FROM CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT SAYS THAT FMLN MILITIAS SABOTAGED POWER LINES ALONG THE ROAD LINKING NUEVA CONCEPCION TO THE NORTHERN TRUNK HIGHWAY AT 1800 ON 12 AUGUST.</p><p>THE ANNOUNCER THEN SAYS THAT GUERRILLA UNITS ATTACKED 3D INFANTRY BRIGADE TROOPS AT LOS AVELINES CANTON, GUATAJIAGUA JURISDICTION, MORAZAN DEPARTMENT, AT 1600 ON 11 AUGUST, INFLICTING FOUR CASUALTIES. THE REPORT STATES: "THE ATTACK WAS CARRIED OUT WITH HAND GRENADES AND RIFLE FIRE." "WE REPORT THAT ONE OF OUR COMRADES WAS WOUNDED IN THIS ATTACK, BUT NOT VERY SERIOUSLY."</p><p>THE NEXT REPORT STATES THAT GUERRILLA UNITS INFLICTED ONE CASUALTY AMONG THE MARINES BATTALION IN JUCUARAN JURISDICTION, USULUTAN DEPARTMENT, AT 1200 ON 12 AUGUST.</p><p>THE LAST REPORT SAYS THAT FMLN UNITS WOUNDED ONE OROMONTIQUE BATTALION CORPORAL AT EL TABLON, JUCUARAN JURISDICTION, AT 1630 ON 13 AUGUST.</p></body></html>