<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0099"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0099"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-06-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0099</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0099</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 1 JUN 90 (AFP) -- [TEXT] OFFICIAL SOURCES HAVE REPORTED BLACKOUTS IN MANY PARTS OF THE COUNTRY BECAUSE OF GUERRILLAS SABOTAGING THE ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM DURING THE NIGHT OF 31 MAY AND THE MORNING OF 1 JUNE.</p><p>ACCORDING TO A MILITARY BULLETIN, THE GUERRILLAS DESTROYED 12 ELECTRIC POLES AND 2 POWER PYLONS IN THE CENTRAL AND WESTERN PARTS OF THE COUNTRY IN LESS THAN 12 HOURS.</p><p>IN THE EASTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY, THE LEMPA RIVER HYDROELECTRIC EXECUTIVE COMMISSION (CEL) REPORTED THAT ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S MAIN POWER LINES WAS OUT OF SERVICE ON THE MORNING OF 1 JUNE BECAUSE A NUMBER OF PYLONS WERE DESTROYED.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE (COPREFA) REPORTED THAT ON THE MORNING OF 1 JUNE GUERRILLAS, USING MORTARS AND RIFLES, ATTACKED A CEL SUB-STATION IN THE NATIVIDAD CANTON IN THE WESTERN DEPARTMENT OF SANTA ANA. THERE WERE NO CASUALTIES, BUT THE GUERRILLAS HAD DAMAGED A TRANSFORMER.</p><p>ON THE MORNING OF 1 JUNE, THERE WAS A BLACKOUT THROUGHOUT MOST OF THE CAPITAL CAUSED BY URBAN COMMANDOS OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN).</p><p>THE GUERRILLAS HAVE INCREASED THEIR ACTIVITY ON THE FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT. CRISTINAI IS SCHEDULED TO ADDRESS THE NATION ON 1 JUNE TO COMMENT ON HIS FIRST YEAR IN OFFICE.</p><p>THE ARMY HAS INCREASED ITS PATROLS AIDED BY HELICOPTERS THAT OVERFLY THE CAPITAL CITY.</p><p>COPREFA REPORTED THAT ONE SOLDIER WAS KILLED AND SEVEN WERE WOUNDED ON 1 JUNE DURING AN AMBUSH OF A MILITARY CONVOY NEAR TEXISTEPEQUE, WEST OF SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>ACCORDING TO COPREFA, ANOTHER SOLDIER WAS WOUNDED IN A GUERRILLA AMBUSH AGAINST THE ELITE BRACAMONTE BATTALION ON A HIGHWAY IN CENTRAL EL SALVADOR.</p></body></html>