<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0045"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0045"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TRUJILLO"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0045</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0045</p><p>TRUJILLO, 9 OCT 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] A PERUVIAN DIPLOMATIC SOURCE SAID TODAY THAT JUDGING BY PERU'S STANCE ON THE POLITICAL AND SOCIAL SITUATION IN THE ISTHMUS, THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT "IS UNCOMFORTABLE" WITH THE PRESENCE OF THE PANAMANIAN AMBASSADOR IN LIMA.</p><p>THE SOURCE, WHO REQUESTED ANONYMITY, ALSO SAID THAT THE PRESENCE OF PANAMANIAN AMBASSADOR BERTRAN SHERR IT "CAN ONLY BE UNDERSTOOD AS BEING OF COMMERCIAL AND PERSONAL INTEREST."</p><p>THE SOURCE TOLD EFE THAT THE EVENTUAL REMOVAL OF PANAMA FROM THE GROUP OF EIGHT AND ITS REPLACEMENT BY A NEW MEMBER WILL BE DECIDED THIS WEDNESDAY IN ICA (PERU) DURING THE SUMMIT OF THE PRESIDENTS OF ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, COLOMBIA, MEXICO, PERU, URUGUAY, AND VENEZUELA.</p><p>PANAMA'S ROLE IN THE GROUP OF EIGHT HAS BEEN SUSPENDED BECAUSE OF THAT COUNTRY'S CURRENT POLITICAL SITUATION.</p><p>THE SAME SOURCE DISMISSED THE IDEA THAT PERU MAY BE PLANNING TO BREAK DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH PANAMA BECAUSE THIS WOULD AFFECT PERU'S LINKS WITH THE PANAMANIAN PEOPLE AND "THIS IS NOT THE POSITION OF THE GROUP OF EIGHT MEMBER COUNTRIES."</p><p>PANAMA HAS HAD AN AMBASSADOR IN PERU FOR 40 YEARS, BUT ONLY FOR "PERSONAL REASONS".</p><p>IN THE PRIVATE DIALOGUE WITH EFE, THE SOURCE SAID THAT "THE PANAMANIAN AMBASSADOR SEEMINGLY DOES NOT UNDERSTAND THE MESSAGES SENT BY THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT THROUGH ITS RECENT ACTIONS."</p><p>IN EARLY SEPTEMBER THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT REMOVED ITS AMBASSADOR TO PANAMA, MR MARIO CASTRO ARENAS, FOR AN INDEFINITE PERIOD AND DOWNGRADED RELATIONS BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES TO THE LEVEL OF CHARGE D'AFFAIRES. PERU DID THIS AFTER ANNOUNCING THAT IT WOULD NOT RECOGNIZE THE LEGITIMACY OF THE NEW PANAMANIAN GOVERNMENT HEADED BY FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ.</p><p>ASKED IF THE PANAMANIAN DIPLOMAT WOULD BE INVITED TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY, THE SOURCE SAID THAT "THIS HAS NOT BEEN CONSIDERED BECAUSE THAT WOULD IMPLY BREAKING RELATIONS WITH PANAMA, AND PERU DOES NOT WANT TO GO THAT FAR."</p><p>IN COMMENTS TO A TELEVISION REPORTER LAST SUNDAY IN LIMA, FOREIGN MINISTER GUILLERMO LARCO COX SAID THAT PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA WILL PROPOSE THE DEFINITIVE EXPULSION OF PANAMA FROM THE GROUP OF EIGHT.</p><p>THE FOREIGN MINISTERS OF ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, MEXICO, URUGUAY, AND PERU BEGAN A 2-DAY MEETING IN TRUJILLO TODAY AND THEIR AGENDA INCLUDES THE SITUATION IN PANAMA, THE FIGHT AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING, TERRORISM, THE FOREIGN DEBT, AND THE INTEGRATION PROCESS.</p><p>TRUJILLO, 550 KILOMETERS NORTH OF LIMA, IS NORMALLY A QUIET AREA, BUT IT NOW GIVES THE IMPRESSION OF BEING A MILITARIZED CITY. THIS MILITARY PRESENCE IS AIMED AT DETERRING SABOTAGE AND ATTACKS BY TERRORIST GROUPS.</p><p>AT LEAST 5,000 POLICEMEN AND SOLDIERS ARE GUARDING ALL ENTRANCES TO THE CITY. THERE IS EVEN HEAVIER SECURITY AT THE PLAZA DE ARMAS ZONE, WHERE THE FOREIGN MINISTERS WILL MEET. NO VEHICLES OR PEOPLE ARE ALLOWED IN THAT AREA.</p></body></html>