<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0004"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0004"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0004</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0004</p><p>BOGOTA, 11 JAN 90 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 2) -- [TEXT] THE DIRECTORATE OF JUDICIAL POLICE AND INVESTIGATIONS [DIJIN] HAS DISMANTLED THE BOGOTA CARTEL FOLLOWING AN OPERATION IN WHICH 20 LUXURY HOMES WERE RAIDED IN DIFFERENT AREAS OF THE CITY. ACCORDING TO A DIJIN REPORT, THE POLICE INFILTRATED THE INNER STRUCTURE OF THE CAMILO ZAPATA VASQUEZ FAMILY. THE NOTICIERO DE LAS SIETE NEWSCAST MANAGED TO SHOOT VIDEO FOOTAGE OF THE RAID ON THE LA MARIA FARM ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF BOGOTA. HERE IS EXCLUSIVE FOOTAGE AND A REPORT BY WILLIAM CALDERON:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CALDERON] ANONYMOUS CALLERS INFORMED THE AUTHORITIES ABOUT LA MARIA FARM, A LUXURIOUS RANCH LOCATED NEAR ASUBA, A FEW KILOMETERS FROM BOGOTA. AT 1900, A GOES [SPECIAL OPERATIONS GROUP] TEAM SURROUNDED THE RANCH. AN AGENT MAKES SURE THE MAIN GATE IS NOT ELECTRICALLY WIRED, AND THE DECISION TO FORCIBLY ENTER THE HOUSE IS MADE. THEY ALL COVER ONE ANOTHER AS THEY TAKE THEIR POSITIONS. THESE MEN ARE PERFECTLY TRAINED FOR THIS SORT OF WORK. THESE IS A LIGHT INSIDE THE RANCH HOUSE, SO THEY ASSUME SOMEONE IS INSIDE. TENSION RISES IN VIEW OF THE POSSIBILITY OF AN ARMED CONFRONTATION. AS HE APPROACHES THE RANCH, THE COMMANDER DECIDES TO STORM IT. MOMENTS LATER, SEVERAL MEN OPEN THE DOOR WITHOUT OFFERING RESISTANCE AND SURRENDER TO THE AUTHORITIES.</p><p>A PATROL ENTERS QUICKLY AND CONTROLS EVERY CORNER OF THE RANCH. OTHER UNIFORMED MEN SUPPORT THE OPERATION FROM OUTSIDE. THEY UNSUCCESSFULLY LOOK FOR CACHES. THESE THREE WORKERS WHO WERE DOING REPAIRS AT THE RANCH WERE DETAINED AS A PRECAUTION IN THE MAIN HALL. MEANWHILE, THE SEARCH CONTINUES IN OTHER AREAS OF THE HOUSE. THREE SAFES WERE HIDDEN IN DIFFERENT ROOMS OF THE RANCH HOUSE. ONE OF THE SAFES WAS BUILT INTO ONE OF THE EIGHT MARBLE-TILED BATHROOMS. THE HUGE KITCHEN WAS TEMPORARILY AT THE WORKERS' DISPOSAL. NEAR THE MASTER BEDROOM WAS A LARGE SWIMMING POOL WITH A GROUND-LEVEL WINDOW FROM THE SAUNA AND JACUZZI AREA. THERE WERE SEVERAL GAME ROOMS AND TENNIS AND SQUASH COURTS IN THE HOUSE.</p><p>THE AUTHORITIES NOW HAVE DOCUMENTS AND PHOTOGRAPHS, ALTHOUGH THE RESIDENTS OF THIS LUXURY RANCH HAD LEFT BEFORE THE RAID.</p><p>NINETEEN OTHER OPERATIONS WERE SIMULTANEOULSY CONDUCTED IN BOGOTA. THE AUTHORITIES SAID AFTERWARD THAT THEY FELT THEY HAD DISMANTLED THE BOGOTA CARTEL.</p><p>THE DIJIN RELEASED THE FOLLOWING REPORT: 10 PERSONS ARRESTED, INCLUDING JESUS EVELIO ZAPATA LOPEZ, THE ALLEGED HEAD OF THIS DRUG TRAFFICKING BAND THAT HAD INTERNATIONAL CONNECTIONS.</p><p>THE FOLLOWING WAS SEIZED: 3 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT WORTH ALMOST 250 MILLION PESOS; 1 1977 PORSCHE SIMILAR TO THE ONE SEIZED FROM JORGE LUIS OCHOA IN 1988; 3 TOYOTAS, ONE OF WHICH WAS SOLD 4 MONTHS AGO BY AN ECUADORAN EMBASSY OFFICIAL IN BOGOTA; 3 REVOLVERS; 3 PISTOLS; 1 CARBINE; AMMUNITION; RADIO COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT; 2 FALSE DIPLOMATIC LICENCE PLATES; AND CASH. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>