<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0035"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0035"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEL AVIV (ISRAEL)"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0035</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0035</p><p>TEL AVIV (ISRAEL), 3 SEP 89 (HADASHOT) -- [REPORT] [SHMU'EL ROSENBLUM] [TEXT] IN THE WAKE OF THE COLOMBIAN AFFAIR, SIMILAR ISRAELI ACTIVITY HAS BEEN REVEALED IN NEIGHBORING PERU AND BOLIVIA. THESE TWO COUNTRIES ARE KNOWN FOR THEIR COCAINE CROPS AND THE DRUG CARTEL'S ORGANIZED ACTIVITIES. IN ADDITION, EXTREMIST RIGHT-WING AND LEFT-WING ORGANIZATIONS THERE ARE ACTIVELY TRYING TO ACHIEVE POLITICAL GOALS THROUGH TERRORIST ACTIVITY.</p><p>HADASHOT HAS LEARNED FROM A SOURCE WHO WAS IN PERU FOR ABOUT 6 MONTHS THAT ELEMENTS LINKED TO THE DRUG GROWERS SPENT APPROXIMATELY $9 MILLION ON MILITARY EQUIPMENT FROM ISRAELI ARMS DEALERS IN 1987. THE EQUIPMENT INCLUDED GALIL RIFLES, FLAK JACKETS, AMMUNITION BELTS AND AMMUNITION, VARIOUS TYPES OF GRENADES, AND COMMUNICATIONS AND NIGHT VISION EQUIPMENT. IN 1988 AND 1989, IN ADDITIONAL DEALS WORTH SOME $6 MILLION, MORTARS, SHELLS, SNIPER RIFLES, AND AMMUNITION FOR LIGHT WEAPONS WERE PURCHASED.</p><p>THE ARMS WERE SENT TO PERU VIA MEXICO AND GUATEMALA. AT LEAST 3 IDF [ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES] RESERVE OFFICERS WERE IN PERU FOR OVER 2 MONTHS IN EARLY 1988 TO ORGANIZE FIGHTING UNITS. THE PERUVIAN FIGHTERS WERE PRESENTED TO THE OFFICERS AS BELONGING TO RIGHT-WING POLITICAL BODIES IN THE COUNTRY, AND THE TEAM OF INSTRUCTORS INCLUDED MERCENARIES FROM THE NETHERLANDS AND ENGLAND.</p><p>THE TEAM OF INSTRUCTORS WAS MADE UP OF SOME 10 PEOPLE, SOME OF WHOM WERE RECRUITED THROUGH AN ISRAELI-NETHERLANDER ARMS DEALER WHO LIVES IN AMSTERDAM. THE NETHERLANDS MEDIA IS CONDUCTING A WIDE-RANGING INVESTIGATION INTO THE SUBJECT DESPITE THE SURPRISING LACK OF INTEREST BY THE NETHERLANDS AUTHORITIES IN THE AFFAIR.</p><p>AT THE SAME TIME, ISRAELIS IN NEIGHBORING BOLIVIA ACTED AS INSTRUCTORS IN A COURSE ON SAFEGUARDING BUSINESSMEN, GUERRILLA WARFARE, AND REGIONAL DEFENSE. THESE ISRAELIS REACHED BOLIVIA IN THE WAKE OF AN ARMS CONSIGNMENT WORTH SOME $12 MILLION, WHICH ARRIVED IN PERU [COUNTRY AS PUBLISHED] VIA A THIRD PARTY, WHICH PURCHASED IT IN AN AFRICAN COUNTRY, WHICH IN TURN HAD RECEIVED IT FROM ISRAEL.</p><p>FOLLOWING THE REPORTS ON DEALS BY ISRAELIS ABROAD, THE INCOME TAX INVESTIGATIONS DIVISION HAS BEGUN AN INQUIRY INTO TAX PAYMENTS ON ISRAELI ARMS DEALS AND TRAINING ABROAD.</p><p>IN THE PAST 5 YEARS, THE SCOPE OF COMMISSIONS PAID TO ARMS DEALERS IS ESTIMATED AT $1 BILLION. AT LEAST HALF OF IT WENT TO BIG DEALERS, SUCH AS SHA'UL EISENBERG, MARCUS KATZ, PESAH BEN-OR, ISRACES, AND OTHERS. THEY ARE NOT UNDER SUSPICION OF TRYING TO CHEAT OR HIDE INFORMATION FROM THE TAX AUTHORITIES.</p></body></html>