<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0012"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0012"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-02-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0012</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0012</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 7 FEB 89 -- [TEXT] THE ARMED FORCES HIGH COMMAND SAID AT THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY THAT IT DOES NOT AGREE WITH VIOLATING THE CONSTITUTION TO FAVOR THE FMLN PROPOSAL. THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY MET THIS MORNING WITH PRESIDENT DUARTE, AS COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF THE ARMED FORCES; DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL CARLOS EUGENIO VIDES CASANOVA; AND ARMED FORCES CHIEF OF STAFF COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES HIGH COMMAND TRUSTS THE POLITICAL PARTIES' MATURITY AND WILL SUPPORT ANY RESOLUTION THEY APPROVE CONCERNING THE FMLN PROPOSAL, THE DEFENSE MINISTER SAID FOLLOWING A PRIVATE MEETING WITH THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY'S DIRECTORATE BOARD AND POLITICAL COMMISSION.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [GEN VIDES] I TOLD THE POLITICAL PARTIES: IF YOU WANT TO GIVE THEM ADVANTAGES SIMPLY BECAUSE YOU DO NOT WANT YOUR CANDIDATES TO WIN, GO AHEAD AND DO IT. THEY MUST DECIDE WHETHER THEY WANT TO GIVE AWAY THE ADVANTAGES OR NOT; BUT I THINK IT WOULD BE UNJUST. A DEATH SQUAD MIGHT SAY: WE DO NOT WANT PEACE AND WE WILL SET OFF BOMBS UNTIL THE OTHERS CHANGE THEIR MINDS.</p><p>THIS IS NOT THE CASE RIGHT NOW. WE WOULD BE SIMPLY ESTABLISHING A PRECEDENT. THAT IS THE MAIN DANGER. IF THE CONSTITUTION IS CHANGED AT WILL TODAY THEN IT CAN BE CHANGED AGAIN TOMORROW, AND AGAIN UNTIL THINGS ARE JUST AS THE REBELS WANT THEM. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE MEETING WAS ALSO ATTENDED BY NAPOLEON DUARTE, IN HIS ROLE AS COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF THE ARMED FORCES.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [DUARTE] I AM HERE AS COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF THE ARMED FORCES. I FULLY SUPPORT THE ARMED FORCES' DECISION CONCERNING ITS UNITY AND THE NEED TO [WORDS INDISTINCT] CONSTITUTION, AND THE WARNING THAT THE ARMED FORCES WILL NOT ADOPT POSITIONS TO HINDER THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS IN THE COUNTRY BECAUSE THERE HAS BEEN TOO MUCH BLOODSHED AND TOO MANY LIVES LOST ALREADY. [END RECORDING]</p><p>IT WAS REPORTED THAT THE FMLN PROPOSAL WAS THOROUGHLY ANALYZED DURING THE MEETING, AND IT WAS AGREED THAT THE CONSTITUTION CANNOT BE VIOLATED TO FAVOR MINORITY GROUPS' POSITIONS.</p><p>THE DEFENSE MINISTER ADDED: THE ARMED FORCES ARE STRONGER THAN EVER. HE ALSO REFERRED TO THE U.S. VICE PRESIDENT'S VISIT AND SAID THAT HIS VIEWS COINCIDE WITH THE ARMED FORCES' GOALS, PARTICULARLY CONCERNING HUMAN RIGHTS.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES HIGH COMMAND'S VISIT TO THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY IS CONSIDERED THE SECOND STEP TAKEN IN RESPONSE TO THE FMLN'S PROPOSAL TO THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY. THE FIRST STEP WAS TO CALL A MEETING OF THE THE POLITICAL PARTIES, WHICH WAS NOT ATTENDED BY THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY BUT SERVED AS THE BASIS FOR FUTURE MEETINGS IN A SO-CALLED NEUTRAL PLACE.</p><p>THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY'S POLITICAL COMMISSION HAS NOT RULED OUT THE POSSIBILITY OF INVITING ARCHBISHOP ARTURO RIVERA Y DAMAS, WHO IS INVOLVED TO SOME DEGREE IN THE REBEL PROPOSAL.</p></body></html>