<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0062"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0062"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0062</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0062</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 16 NOV 89 -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CRISTIANI] [CONTINUED] THAT IS THE POSITION OF THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT. WITH THE INFORMATION IT HAS, THE GOVERNMENT CANNOT POINT THE FINGER AT ANYONE. IT CANNOT ACCUSE ANYONE YET, BECAUSE THERE IS NO CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE IN THIS CASE. WE BELIEVE THERE MAY BE SOME PEOPLE WHO CAN COOPERATE WITH US IF WE HELP THEM. THERE MAY BE SOME WITNESSES, WHO MAY BE WILLING TO COOPERATE, BUT THEY MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE RIGHT NOW. [WORDS INDISTINCT] HE SAID HE WAS WILLING TO HELP. THEY WANTED THE INVESTIGATIONS TO TAKE PLACE.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[CRISTIANI] WELL, I BELIEVE MUCH DEPENDS ON THE POSITION OF THE FMLN. I HAVE LISTENED TO SEVERAL VERSIONS ALL THE WAY FROM DEMANDING MY RESIGNATION TO ASSASSINATION ATTEMPTS AGAINST ME TO FINISH EVERYTHING UP. UNDER THESE TERMS, THEY ARE SAYING WE ARE ABOUT TO CREATE A NEW LEBANON, AND THEY ARE SAYING THE FMLN HAS CONTROL OVER CERTAIN LIBERATED AREAS IN THE CAPITAL. HOWEVER, IF WE TALKED ABOUT THE SITUATION RATIONALLY AND REASONABLY, THERE COULD BE [WORD INDISTINCT].</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[CRISTIANI] WELL, WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT THE AIR FORCE SITUATION IN THE PAST. THE AIR FORCE HAS ORDERS NOT TO BOMB AND NOT TO USE ITS WEAPONS AGAINST URBAN AREAS OF THE CAPITAL UNLESS IT HAS BEEN ABLE TO DETECT AND ISOLATE A CLEAR FMLN TARGET. IN THIS REGARD, AIR FORCE BOMBS WERE NOT USED UNTIL LAST NIGHT WHEN AIR FORCE PLANES WERE ATTACKED FROM SOME SUGARCANE FIELDS NORTH OF THE 1533 LANDING STRIP [16-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION]...USE BOMBS TO STOP THE USE OF FMLN MORTARS. THE AIR FORCE USED MACHINEGUNS [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE ONLY TIME THEY WERE USED WITHIN THE URBAN AREA, TO BE SURE THEY WERE NOT ENDANGERING ANYONE, WERE TWO MORTARS INSTALLED IN THE SOCCER FIELD OF THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY. [WORDS INDISTINCT] ONE WAS FIRED AT THE POLICE BATTALION IN ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD, AND THE OTHER WAS FIRING AT THE 1ST BRIGADE. [WORDS INDISTINCT] I BELIEVE THAT AMONG THE WEAPONS THAT WERE SEIZED, THERE ARE SOME OF THAT. I AM NOT TOO SURE.</p><p>IN THE [WORDS INDISTINCT], NEAR THE SAN JACINTO HILL WERE USED TO SUPPORT TROOPS THAT WERE USING THE SAN JACINTO HILL. WE BELIEVE IT WAS THE FMLN WITHRAWING [WORDS INDISTINCT] IN SANTA MARTA. UP TO NOW, THE POSITION OF THE ARMED FORCES STAFF AND THE HIGH COMMAND IN THE USE OF THE AIR FORCE IS ONLY [WORDS INDISTINCT] AND WHEN SPECIFIC TARGETS CAN BE ISOLATED IN WHICH THE CIVILIAN POPULATION IS NOT ENDANGERED.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[CRISTIANI] I DO NOT HAVE IT WITH ME RIGHT NOW, BUT THERE WILL BE A REPORT ON THE MILITARY SITUATION [WORDS INDISTINCT] BY THE HIGH COMMAND TONIGHT. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>