<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0065"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0065"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BURGOS (SPAIN)"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0065</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0065</p><p>BURGOS (SPAIN), 19 NOV 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] APPROXIMATELY 1,000 PEOPLE DEMONSTRATED TODAY AT THE BURGOS MAIN SQUARE (CENTRAL) TO ASK THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT TO MEDIATE IN THE SALVADORAN CONFLICT, AND IN BARCELONA (NORTHEASTERN), A DEMONSTRATION TO EXPRESS SUPPORT FOR THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE HAS BEEN SCHEDULED FOR 22 NOVEMBER.</p><p>THE DEMONSTRATORS, CONVOKED BY THE SOLIDARITY WITH LATIN AMERICA COMMITTEE, VERBALLY ATTACKED SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI AND HAVE ASKED THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT TO OFFER ITSELF AS A MEDIATOR TO PROMOTE AN END THE ARMED CONFLICT.</p><p>SOME OF THE PEOPLE WHO ATTENDED THE DEMONSTRATION, WHICH WAS HELD WITHOUT INCIDENTS, CARRIED PLACARTS DENOUNCING THE KILLING OF SIX JESUIT PRIESTS -- FIVE OF WHOM WERE SPANISH CITIZENS -- AND TWO SALVADORAN WOMEN AT THE CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY.</p><p>MEANWHILE, CIVIC ORGANIZATIONS, STUDENT ASSOCIATIONS, LABOR UNIONS, AND POLITICAL PARTIES IN CATALUNA HAVE SCHEDULED A DEMONSTRATION IN SUPPORT OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE TO BE HELD IN BARCELONA ON 22 NOVEMBER.</p><p>THESE ORGANIZATIONS, WHICH HAVE FORMED AN EMERGENCY COMMITTEE, HAVE OPENED AN ACCOUNT AT THE "LA CAIXA" SAVINGS BANK WHERE ECONOMIC DONATIONS ARE BEING ACCEPTED TO HELP THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>IN A MANIFESTO RELEASED, THE COMMITTEE DEMANDS AN END TO THE BOMBING OF CIVILIANS, THE IMMEDIATE EVACUATION OF THE WOUNDED, AND AN END TO ATTACKS AGAINST THE UNION HEADQUARTERS AND LEADERS.</p><p>LIKEWISE, THE COMMITTEE HAS DEMANDED AN END TO U.S. INTERVENTION IN EL SALVADOR AND THAT THE GUATEMALAN AND HONDURAN ARMIES REFRAIN FROM PARTICIPATING IN THE CONFLICT.</p><p>"WE ASK THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT INSTITUTIONS AND THE EEC TO PRESSURE THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT TO BEGIN A REAL NEGOTIATION THAT WILL AN END TO THE CONFLICT AND ITS CAUSES, THE MANIFESTO STATES.</p></body></html>