<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0052"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0052"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0052</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0052</p><p>LIMA, 7 NOV 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT TODAY DECREED A STATE OF EMERGENCY AND MILITARY CONTROL IN FOUR LIMA PROVINCES AND EXTENDED THE MEASURE IN ANOTHER FIVE. THIS MEANS ALL OF LIMA DEPARTMENT, WITH A POPULATION OF OVER 6 MILLION PEOPLE, IS UNDER A STATE OF EMERGENCY.</p><p>THIS GOVERNMENT DECISION IS A RESULT OF THE TERRORIST ACTIVITY IN THE PROVINCES AND AN ATTEMPT TO PREVENT THE BOYCOTT OF THE ELECTION WHICH WAS DECREED BY THE MAOIST "SHINING PATH" ORGANIZATION.</p><p>LIMA DEPARTMENT IS THE LARGEST PERUVIAN DEPARTMENT IN BOTH POPULATION AND ELECTORAL STRENGTH. IT IS MADE UP OF 10 PROVINCES, INCLUDING LIMA PROVINCE, WHICH CONTAINS 90 PERCENT OF THE POPULATION, AND THE CALLAO PORT, WHICH IS RECOGNIZED AS A CONSTITUTIONAL PROVINCE.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE DECREES PUBLISHED TODAY, THE GOVERNMENT IS ESTABLISHING A STATE OF EMERGENCY IN THE PROVINCES OF [WORDS INDISTINCT] AND CANETE, WHILE THE EMERGENCY IN EFFECT IN BARRANCA, CAJATAMBO, HUAURA, YAUYOS, AND OYON WILL BE EXTENDED ANOTHER 30 DAYS. LIMA AND EL CALLAO PROVINCES HAVE BEEN UNDER MILITARY CONTROL SINCE 1 NOVEMBER, WHEN THE GOVERNMENT DECREED A STATE OF EMERGENCY IN THE TWO PROVINCES.</p><p>OF PERU'S 24 DEPARTMENTS, 10 ARE UNDER A STATE OF EMERGENCY. THESE AREAS INCLUDE ANDEAN AND JUNGLE TERRITORIES CONTAINING MORE THAN 50 PERCENT OF PERU'S APPROXIMATELY 22 MILLION PEOPLE.</p></body></html>