<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0082"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0082"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0082</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0082</p><p>BOGOTA, 24 JAN 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE COLOMBIAN LEFTIST ALLIANCE, PATRIOTIC UNION (UP), WAS THE FIRST PARTY TO REGISTER A PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE IN THE UPCOMING 27 MAY ELECTIONS WHEN IT OFFICIALLY REGISTERED BERNARDO JARAMILLO OSSA, 34, AS ITS CANDIDATE TODAY.</p><p>PRIOR TO JARAMILLO OSSA'S ARRIVAL AT THE NATIONAL REGISTRY OFFICE, ACCOMPANIED BY 12 BODYGUARDS, EXPLOSIVES EXPERTS FROM THE SECRET POLICE DEPARTMENT CHECKED THE BUILDING AND CORDONED OFF THE ENTRANCE HE WAS GOING TO USE.</p><p>UP WAS FOUNDED IN 1985 AND HAS LOST ALMOST 1,000 MEMBERS AND REGIONAL LEADERS IN VIOLENT ATTACKS. IT HAS ALSO LOST MOST OF ITS REPRESENTATIVES IN BOGOTA, INCLUDING JAIME PARDO LEAL, THE PARTY FOUNDER AND A PREVIOUS PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE WHO WAS MURDERED IN 1987.</p><p>COLOMBIAN COMMUNIST PARTY PRESIDENT GILBERTO VIEIRA AND THE ENTIRE UP DIRECTORATE ATTENDED BERNARDO JARAMILLO'S REGISTRATION.</p><p>LAST WEEK, THE STATE COUNCIL, COLOMBIA'S HIGHEST LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE BODY, HAD ACCREDITED BERNARDO JARAMILLO AS UP'S PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE.</p><p>BEFORE MAKING HIS CANDIDACY EFFECTIVE, BERNARDO JARAMILLO TOLD EFE THAT HE WOULD ATTEMPT TO BECOME "THE WILL OF A WIDE AND DEMOCRATIC SECTOR OF THE PEOPLE AND AN ALTERNATIVE TO TRADITIONAL COLOMBIAN BIPARTISANSHIP." HE ADDED: "OUR MOVEMENT WANTS TO TRANSCEND THE LIMITS OF THE UP AND OBTAIN FOLLOWERS FROM OTHER SECTORS OF THE DEMOCRATIC LEFT WHO SUPPORT NEW GOVERNMENT ALTERNATIVES."</p><p>HE DID NOT REJECT THE POSSIBILITY THAT UP AND THE 19TH APRIL MOVEMENT (M-19), A REBEL MOVEMENT THAT IS MAKING EFFORTS TO JOIN THE COUNTRY'S LEGAL POLITICAL SYSTEM, WILL PRESENT JOINT ELECTORAL TICKETS IN SOME REGIONS IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>"THERE IS NOTHING CONCRETE ON THIS," HE ADDED, "BUT IT COULD BE AN ALTERNATIVE IF THEY PROPOSE IT."</p><p>UP PRESIDENT DIEGO MONTANA STATED THAT "OUR PARTY'S MAIN OBJECTIVE IN THESE ELECTIONS IS TO BREAK THE LIBERAL AND SOCIAL CONSERVATIVE HEGEMONY." THESE TWO SECTORS HAVE SHARED POWER DURING COLOMBIA'S ENTIRE REPUBLICAN PERIOD.</p><p>"WE PRESENT OUR CANDIDATE TO OTHER POLITICAL MOVEMENTS WITH THE HOPE THAT HIS CANDIDACY WILL BE BACKED AND THAT WE CAN CREATE A NEW AND WIDER FORCE WITH POSSIBILITIES OF ATTAINING VICTORY," HE NOTED.</p><p>JARAMILLO'S CAMPAIGN SLOGAN, "COUNTRYMEN, GIVE ME YOUR HAND" APPEARED IN POSTERS THROUGHOUT BOGOTA TODAY.</p><p>AFTER REGISTERING, BERNARDO JARAMILLO ATTENDED THE FUNERAL OF A FELLOW PARTY MEMBER, VLADIMIR ESCOBAR, A SOACHA MUNICIPAL OFFICIAL WHO WAS SHOT BETWEEN THE EYES AND KILLED THIS WEEK. THE SOACHA MUNICIPALITY IS CLOSE TO BOGOTA.</p></body></html>