<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0067"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0067"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0067</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0067</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [REPORT] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] HEAVY CLASHES ARE TAKING PLACE RIGHT NOW IN ESCALON AND SAN BENITO RESIDENTIAL AREAS. THERE IS NO GOING BACK. WE HAVE BROKEN THE DEFENSIVE LINES OF THE ENEMY. WE HAVE BROKEN [WORDS INDISTINCT] IN THE CAPITAL CITY, WE ARE FIGHTING IN FRONT OF THE DENS OF COLONEL PONCE AND OTHER OFFICERS WHO HAVE TURNED THE WAR INTO A BUSINESS. THOSE OFFICERS HAVE LUXURIOUS MANSIONS IN MIAMI. EVERY WEEKEND AND EVEN IN SPITE OF THE WAR, COL PONCE HAS ORGIES IN HIS LUXURIOUS HOMES IN THE COUNTRY'S INTERIOR. SOLDIERS, PATRIOTIC OFFICERS, WE CALL ON YOU TO JOIN THE PEOPLE AND JOIN OUR FRONT. PATRIOTIC OFFICERS, WHO ARE LISTENING TO US, DO NOT ALLOW MORE BOMBINGS IN OUR CAPITAL CITY BY THE GENOCIDAL TANDONA GROUP [1966 GRADUATING CLASS OF THE CAPT GEN GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY SCHOOL]. YOUNG OFFICERS, LIEUTENANTS WHO ARE BEING KILLED IN THE RESIDENTIAL AREAS AND NEIGHBORHOODS OF THE CAPITAL CITY, WHY SHOULD YOU BE KILLED WHILE DEFENDING PONCE'S MANSIONS? THIS IS THE LAST SCENARIO OF THE LAST CHAPTER IN WHICH THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] WILL ACHIEVE THE VICTORY OF THE PEOPLE. WE CALL ON YOUR CONSCIENCE, YOUNG PATRIOTIC OFFICER.</p><p>JUST LOOK AT WHAT HAPPENED IN THE BOMBINGS OF ZACAMIL. OVER 500 HOMES WERE RAZED. ARE YOU GOING TO ALLOW THE HIGH COMMAND TO FINISH OFF THE CITY, TO FINISH OFF THE NEIGHBORHOODS AND RESIDENTIAL AREAS WHERE YOUR RELATIVES MIGHT BE? YOU SAW WHAT HAPPENED IN ZACAMIL, MEJICANOS, SOYAPANGO. PATRIOTIC OFFICER, IT IS TIME WE SIT DOWN TO TALK, TO SEE WHAT WE CAN DO WITH OUR FATHERLAND, AND WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO WITH LA TANDONA. PATRIOTIC OFFICERS WHO ARE LISTENING TO US: IT IS USELESS TO CONTINUE DEFENDING; TO CONTINUE DEFENDING WHAT, WE ASK YOU. THE FATHERLAND? WHAT FATHERLAND? THE FATHERLAND YOU ARE TOLD YOU ARE DEFENDING ARE THE MILLIONS AND THE MANSIONS OF COL PONCE AND OF COL ELENA FUENTES. PATRIOTIC OFFICERS: THE TIME IS HERE, TAKE ONE STEP FORWARD.</p><p>WE HAVE MORE REPORTS FROM SAN SALVADOR: EARLY THIS MORNING, COMBAT HAS BEEN RESUMED IN THE FOLLOWING PLACES: ESCALON, SAN BENITO, AND LA SULTANA RESIDENTIAL AREAS. THESE ATTACKS ARE AGAINST THE SOLDIERS FROM MILITARY DETACHMENT NO. 6 AND THE CAVALRY. COMBATS ARE ALSO REPORTED NORTH OF AYUTUXTEPEQUE, AGAINST SOLDIERS FROM THE 4TH AND 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE. THERE ARE ALSO CLASHES IN THE AREA OF METROPOLIS AND ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOODS AGAINST SOLDIERS FROM THE BRACAMONTE BATTALION.</p><p>IT IS IMPORTANT TO POINT OUT THAT IN SAN BENITO AND LA SULTANA RESIDENTIAL AREAS, WE ARE FIGHTING AGAINST SOLDIERS FROM SONSONATE, AND NOT FROM SAN SALVADOR. THE SOLDIERS ARE FROM MILITARY DETACHMENT NO. 6 OF SONSONATE. TROOPS FROM SONSONATE HAVE BEEN BROUGHT INTO SAN SALVADOR, BECAUSE THE HIGH COMMAND HAS LOST CONTROL OF THE SITUATION. IN OTHER WORDS, THERE IS A MIXTURE OF SOLDIERS FROM ALL PARTS OF THE COUNTRY IN THE CAPITAL CITY. THIS HAS YIELDED NEGATIVE RESULTS FOR THE HIGH COMMAND. IN THE CAPITAL CITY, THERE HAVE BEEN CLASHES BETWEEN THE ATLACATL BATTALION AND THE NATIONAL POLICE, AND THE NATIONAL GUARD HAS ATTACKED TROOPS FROM MILITARY DETACHMENT NO. 6. THESE ARE LITTLE SOLDIERS FROM SONSONATE WHO HAVE BEEN BROUGHT INTO THE CAPITAL CITY, AND THEY ARE NOT FAMILIAR WITH THE CITY. THEY ARE CLASHING AGAINST EACH OTHER.</p><p>CLASHES ARE ALSO REPORTED WITH THE 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE AND THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE IN AYUTUXTEPEQUE. IN OTHER WORDS, THE 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE IS FIGHTING IN AYUTUXTEPEQUE. WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN THE INTERIOR OF THE COUNTRY? THE GARRISONS HAVE BEEN LEFT EMPTY. THE SAN FRANCISCO GOTERA GARRISON HAS BEEN LEFT WITHOUT ANYONE. THE 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE IS BEING LEFT BY ITSELF, AS WELL AS THE MILITARY DETACHMENT NO. 1. THE COLONELS ARE DESPERATE AND ARE BRINGING TROOPS INTO THE CAPITAL CITY.</p><p>THIS IS A GOOD REPORT. THE 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE AND MILITARY DETACHMENT NO. 6 ARE IN THE CAPITAL. THIS IS THE SITUATION ON THIS MORNING OF VICTORIOUS BATTLES. WHO WOULD BELIEVE IT? THE SONSONATE SOLDIERS ARE FIGHTING IN THE CAPITAL CITY. THIS GIVES US A GENERAL PICTURE OF THE DEFEAT. IF THE SONSONATE TROOPS ARE FIGHTING IN THE LAST DEFENSIVE LINE, THIS MEANS THAT THE SONSONATE LINES HAVE BEEN WIPED OUT.</p><p>ATTENTION, FMLN ANTIAIRCRAFT UNITS HAVE OPENED FIRE WITH THEIR M-60 MACHINEGUNS AGAINST UH-1H HELICOPTERS THAT ARE FLYING OVER THE RESIDENTIAL AREAS OF THE OLIGARCHY. LIKEWISE, A HELICOPTER IS RIGHT NOW FLYING OVER THE ARMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF OFFICES. FMLN UNITS ARE FIRING THEIR ANTI-AIRCRAFT WEAPONS IN THE ESCALON RESIDENTIAL AREA.</p></body></html>