<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0058"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0058"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0058</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0058</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 14 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] TODAY, 14 NOVEMBER, NEW ATTACKS ARE TAKING PLACE AGAINST POSITIONS OF THE JOINT STAFF OF THE ARMED FORCES. THE PINK ZONE [LA ZONA ROSA] IS TURNING BLACK FOR THE ENEMY. OUR FORCES ARE CLASHING WITH THE ZACAMIL BATTALION.</p><p>WE HAVE A REPORT FROM THE CAPITAL SAYING THAT THIS AFTERNOON, FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] FORCES WERE STRONGLY ATTACKING ZACAMIL BATTALION TROOPS. THE FMLN TROOPS ARE HARASSING THE JOINT STAFF OF THE ARMED FORCES AT THIS TIME. BARRICADES ARE BEING SET UP THROUGHOUT THE CAPITAL ON THIS 4TH DAY OF FIGHTING.</p><p>THIS IS THE SECOND ATTACK ON THE JOINT STAFF IN LESS THAN 24 HOURS BECAUSE, AS WE SAID LAST NIGHT, FMLN TROOPS INITIATED ATTACKS AGAINST THE SAN BENITO BATTALION AT THE INTERNATIONAL FAIR AND AGAINST THE FORCES DEFENDING THE JOINT STAFF OF THE ARMED FORCES.</p><p>THIS IS THE SECOND ATTACK AGAINST THE JOINT STAFF, WHICH COMPLICATES THE OVERALL SITUATION FOR THE ARMED FORCES IN THE CAPITAL. WE ARE ATTACKING THE TOP COMMAND OF THE ENEMY FORCES. FMLN FORCES ARE ATTACKING THE HEART AND THE BRAIN OF THE ENEMY.</p><p>SALVADORAN AIR FORCE PLANES ARE OVERFLYING AREAS NORTH OF THE CAPITAL, AND THEY CONTINUE MACHINEGUNNING AND BOMBING CIVILIAN AREAS. A FEW MINUTES AGO, WE REPORTED HEAVY BOMBING IN ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD.</p></body></html>