<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0042"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0042"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0042</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0042</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 28 SEP 89 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF, SAID TODAY THAT THE OFFENSIVE LAUNCHED ON 26 SEPTEMBER BY THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, FMLN, WAS A MISTAKEN STEP TAKEN BY THE REBELS WITHIN THE CONTEXT OF THE DIALOGUE PROCESS WITH THE GOVERNMENT, WHICH WAS RESUMED IN MEXICO.</p><p>COL PONCE SAID THAT WITH THIS ATTITUDE THE REBELS ARE NOT SHOWING A REAL DESIRE FOR PEACE, AND HE DESCRIBED IT AS A PROPAGANDISTIC ACTION.</p><p>TODAY, DURING HIS TOUR OF VARIOUS AREAS OF CONFLICT, COL PONCE SAID THAT RECENT FMLN ATTACKS ON VARIOUS MILITARY POSITIONS AS PART OF ITS LATEST CAMPAIGN FOLLOWING THE UNILATERAL TRUCE WAS A SERIOUS MISTAKE ON THE PART OF THE REBEL COMMANDERS, AS THEY HAVE BEEN CARRIED OUT IN THE MIDST OF A DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE REBELS AND THE GOVERNMENT, WHICH HAS BEEN DESCRIBED AS CONTINUOUS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PONCE] THAT SHOWS THERE ARE, ON THE ONE HAND, THE PROPOSALS AND WHAT THE TERRORIST LEADERS CALL THEIR DESIRE FOR PEACE, AND, ON THE OTHER HAND, THE REAL ACTIONS. I THINK THAT THE CAMPAIGN THE FMLN HAS MOUNTED NATIONWIDE WAS A BAD STEP, BECAUSE IT DOES NOT SHOW A REAL AND SINCERE DESIRE TO SEEK PEACE IN OUR COUNTRY. [END RECORDING]</p><p>COLONEL PONCE ADDED THAT THE REQUEST FOR REDUCING THE NUMBER OF TROOPS AS STATED IN THE GUERRILLA PROPOSAL IS A POLITICAL MOVE. HE PLAYED DOWN THE LATEST REBEL OFFER PRESENTED TO THE GOVERNMENT IN MEXICO.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PONCE] THE PROPOSAL WAS AIMED AT IMPROVING THE FMLN'S IMAGE ABROAD, WHICH HAD DETERIORATED IN ONE WAY OR ANOTHER. THE PROPOSAL CAN BE DISCUSSED; HOWEVER, WE IN THE ARMED FORCES ARE NOT THE ONES WHO WILL DISCUSS IT OR WHO WILL DECIDE WHETHER IT CAN OR CANNOT BE ACCEPTED. IT IS A POLITICAL DECISION, AND THE ARMED FORCES WILL ACCEPT THE DECISION MADE BY THE GOVERNMENT. THE MILITARY COMMANDERS ARE NOT THE ONES WHO MUST DECIDE ON THE NUMBER OF TROOPS THE INSTITUTION SHOULD HAVE. THIS IS A DECISION TO BE MADE BY THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY, BASED ON THE REQUIREMENTS AND THREATS THE COUNTRY MAY BE FACING. [END RECORDING]</p><p>COLONEL PONCE VISITED THE POSITIONS OF THE ARMY'S BELLOSO AND ATLACATL ELITE BATTALIONS IN THE TOWNS OF PERQUIN IN MORAZAN DEPARTMENT AND LA LAGUNA IN CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT, NEAR THE HONDURAN BORDER, WHERE FIGHTING IS TAKING PLACE. DURING THIS MILITARY TOUR, COL PONCE SAID THAT IT HAS BEEN DEMONSTRATED THAT THERE IS NO LIBERATED OR PERMANENTLY OCCUPIED TERRITORY IN EL SALVADOR. HOWEVER, THE REBELS CLAIM THEY CONTROL THAT AREA OF INTENSE CONFLICT WHERE THE WAR HAS LEFT ITS INDELIBLE MARK.</p></body></html>