<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0024"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0024"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0024</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0024</p><p>BOGOTA, 14 JUL 89 (EMISORAS CARACOL NETWORK) -- [TEXT] FOR THE SECOND TIME, UNIDENTIFIED TERRORISTS DYNAMITED THE OIL PIPELINE BETWEEN HUILA DEPARTMENT AND BARRANCABERMEJA. MEANWHILE, ECOPETROL [COLOMBIAN PETROLEUM ENTERPRISE] WORKERS ARE REPAIRING THE CANO LIMON-COVENAS PIPELINE AND CLEANING UP THE ARAUCA RIVER ALONG THE VENEZUELAN BORDER, WHERE A HUGE OIL SPILL WAS CAUSED BY ANOTHER ATTACK AGAINST THE OIL PIPELINE.</p><p>AUTHORITIES CONFIRMED THAT THERE WAS A POWERFUL DYNAMITE EXPLOSION AT THE VINA-PUERTO SALGAR OIL PIPELINE, LOCATED APPROXIMATELY 30 KM FROM NATAGAIMA, IN NORTHERN HUILA DEPARTMENT, CAUSING AN UNDETERMINED AMOUNT OF CRUDE OIL TO SPILL.</p><p>THIS IS THE SECOND TIME IN LESS THAN 1 MONTH THAT TERRORISTS HAVE ATTACKED THE OIL PIPELINE OPERATED BY HOUSTON OIL AND ECOPETROL. A FEW WEEKS AGO, TERRORISTS DESTROYED THE PIPELINE NEAR AIPE, WHICH CAUSED ANOTHER OIL SPILL.</p><p>MEANWHILE, OPERATORS FROM THE STATE-RUN OIL COMPANY YESTERDAY BEGAN REPAIRING THE CANO LIMON-COVENAS OIL PIPELINE DYNAMITED ON THE NIGHT OF 12 JULY IN ARAUQUITA JURISDICTION, WHICH FORCED THE SUSPENSION OF OIL PUMPING FROM ARAUCA INTENDANCY'S OIL FIELDS TO THE GULF OF MORROSQUILLO.</p><p>MEMBERS OF THE CONTINGENCY TEAM SUPPORTED BY PETROVEN [VENEZUELAN PETROLEUM, INC.] AND THE VENEZUELAN ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES MINISTRY ARE CLEANING UP A HUGE OIL SPILL AT THE ARAUCA RIVER CAUSED BY THE 7 JULY ATTACK AGAINST THE CANO LIMON-COVENAS OIL PIPELINE. THAT ATTACK RESULTED IN A SPILL OF 13,000 BARRELS OF OIL, WHICH SEVERELY CONTAMINATED FARMING AREAS AND THE ARAUCA RIVER, TO THE POINT THAT THE POTABLE WATER SERVICE WAS TEMPORARILY SUSPENDED IN ARAUCA'S CAPITAL CITY.</p></body></html>