<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0025"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0025"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0025</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0025</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 21 JUL 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] SAN SALVADOR DOMESTIC SERVICE IN SPANISH AT 0202 GMT ON 21 JULY BROADCASTS A 1 HOUR AND 11 MINUTE LIVE OR RECORDED SPEECH "TO THE NATION" BY SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI ON "THE CURRENT SITUATION IN THE COUNTRY AND THE NATIONAL RECOVERY PLAN." NO DATE OR PLACE IS GIVEN.</p><p>CRISTIANI BEGINS BY SAYING THAT THIS IS HIS FIRST REPORT TO THE NATION AFTER 50 DAYS AS PRESIDENT. HE NOTES THAT SINCE HE ASSUMED POWER ON 1 JUNE, THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT HAS INCREASED ITS LEVEL OF VIOLENCE AND ITS NUMBER OF "INDISCRIMINATE KILLINGS." HE SAYS THAT THERE IS NO REASON FOR THIS SINCE HE EXPRESSED ON 1 JUNE HIS DESIRE FIND A PEACEFUL SOLUTION TO THE CONFLICT IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>CRISTIANI SAYS THAT SINCE 1 JUNE HE HAS REPEATEDLY CALLED FOR A PEACE DIALOGUE, ADDING: "IN ORDER TO BEGIN A DIALOGUE OF THIS NATURE, IT MUST BE HELD IN TWO PHASES: NATURALLY, DURING THE FIRST PHASE BOTH SIDES MUST SIT DOWN TO DISCUSS THE MECHANISMS TO DEVELOP THAT DIALOGUE PROCESS, A TIMETABLE FOR THE TALKS, AND THE PLACE WHERE THE TALKS WILL BE HELD. IN OTHER WORDS, THE FIRST PHASE WILL BE TO DETERMINE HOW THE DIALOGUE PROCESS WILL TAKE PLACE. THE SECOND PHASE -- ONCE AN AGREEMENT IS REACHED ON HOW THE DIALOGUE WILL BE HELD -- IS WHAT WILL BE DISCUSSED. IN THAT REGARD, OUR GOVERNMENT HAS NOT SET ANY CONDITIONS. WE ARE WILLING TO DISCUSS ANY TOPIC, BECAUSE WE KNOW THAT WE MUST FIND SOLUTIONS TO MANY THINGS, AND WE ARE WILLING TO DO SO. THE ONLY CONDITION WE HAVE DEMANDED FOR THIS DIALOGUE PROCESS IS THAT, ONCE IT BEGINS, IT SHOULD NOT BE INTERRUPTED FOR ANY REASON. WE BELIEVE THAT PEOPLE WANT PEACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE, AND WE CANNOT HOLD TALKS FOR YEARS. ONCE WE SIT DOWN TO TALK, THAT DIALOGUE SHOULD CONTINUE UNTIL AN OVERALL SOLUTION IS FOUND TO THE CONFLICT. THAT IS OUR GOVERNMENT'S POSITION, AND WE MAINTAIN THAT POSITION BECAUSE WE BELIEVE IT IS THE MOST LOGICAL ONE."</p><p>TURNING TO ECONOMIC MATTERS, CRISTIANI SAYS THAT THE COUNTRY NEEDS TO SOLVE THREE PROBLEMS: THE FISCAL DEFICIT, INFLATION, AND UNEMPLOYMENT. HE SAYS THAT AS A FIRST STEP TO BEGIN THE NATIONAL ECONOMIC RECOVERY IS TO REFORM THE GOVERNMENT'S PRICING POLICY, ADDING: "WE MUST PROTECT LOW-INCOME GROUPS, AND FOR THIS REASON WE HAVE ASKED THE ECONOMY MINISTER TO BEGIN A PROCESS AIMED AT ELIMINATING PRICE CONTROLS. WE BELIEVE THAT WE CAN ELIMINATE PRICE CONTROLS ON 230 PRODUCTS WITHOUT HAVING A MAJOR IMPACT ON THE MAJORITY OF THE PUBLIC AND THAT WE CAN KEEP STAPLE PRODUCTS UNDER THE CONTROL OF THE ECONOMY MINISTRY." HE SAYS THAT PRICE CONTROLS ON STAPLES LIKE BASIC GRAINS, POWDERED MILK, FLOUR, COFFEE, SUGAR, VEGETABLE OIL AND LARD, CEMENT FOR HOUSING, AND OIL BY-PRODUCTS WILL NOT BE ELIMINATED.</p><p>REGARDING THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR, CRISTIANI SAYS: "WE AGREED WITH THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR TO DEREGULATE THE DIFFERENTIAL SERVICE. TO ALLOW THEM TO CONTINUE SERVING LOW-INCOME SEGMENTS OF THE POPULATION WHILE CHARGING CURRENT FARES, WE WILL ALSO ALLOW THEM TO OFFER THE HIGHER-PRICED SERVICE. IN OTHER WORDS, PEOPLE WILL BE ABLE TO CHOOSE WHAT KIND OF SERVICE THEY WANT TO USE: WHETHER THEY CONTINUE TO USE THE LOW-PRICED SERVICE OR A BETTER, MORE COMFORTABLE, AND FASTER SERVICE."</p><p>ON ELECTRICITY RATES, CRISTIANI SAYS: "WE FEEL THAT ADJUSTMENTS TO ELECTRICITY RATES SHOULD BE APPLIED AS A RESULT OF POWER THAT IS WASTED, THAT IS, BECAUSE IT IS POWER THAT IS BEING CONSUMED BEYOND WHAT IS NEEDED TO LIVE NORMALLY. THE INCREASE IN ELECTRICITY RATES WILL BE DIRECTLY PROPORTIONAL TO THE CONSUMPTION OF ENERGY IN EACH HOME. WE BELIEVE THAT WITH THIS INITIAL MEASURE, THE CEL [LEMPA RIVER HYDROELECTRIC EXECUTIVE COMMISSION] SOLVE PROBLEMS."</p><p>TURNING TO OTHER ECONOMIC MEASURES, CRISTIANI SAYS: "WE HAVE TO TAKE SHORT-TERM MEASURES TOO. IN THIS RESPECT, THE MOST LOGICAL STEP IS TO TAKE MEASURES THAT WILL AFFECT CONSUMPTION AND NOT REVENUES. THUS, WE HAVE ASKED THE FINANCE MINISTER TO TAKE MEASURES RELATED TO TAXES. HE IS TO CONSOLIDATE TAX PAYMENTS AND ONLY EXEMPT THE PREVIOUSLY MENTIONED BASIC BREAD BASKET ITEMS FROM THE PRESENT 5-PERCENT TAX. WE HAVE TO START ELIMINATING TAX EXEMPTIONS. ONLY EXPORTS SHOULD HAVE SOME TYPE OF MONETARY INCENTIVE BECAUSE OUR COUNTRY IS INTERESTED IN DEVELOPING ITS EXPORTS. THE REST OF THE COUNTRY'S ECONOMIC SECTORS SHOULD BE TAXED AT THE SAME RATE."</p><p>CRISTIANI ADDS: "WE ARE GOING TO MODIFY THE SYSTEM OF PAYING INCOME TAX. WE BELIEVE THAT THE CURRENT SYSTEM IS BASED ON UNJUST REGULATIONS, ON REVENUES EARNED THE PREVIOUS YEAR THAT DO NOT REFLECT A FIRM'S PRESENT SITUATION. THUS, WE ARE GOING TO REQUEST THAT INCOME-TAX PAYMENTS BE BASED ON A SMALL PERCENTAGE OF THE FIRM'S PRESENT SALES; THESE ARE A TRUER AND MORE ACCURATE REFLECTION OF A FIRM'S INCOME."</p><p>CRISTIANI SAYS THAT THE COUNTRY'S MONETARY POLICY MUST BE AIMED AT INCREASING SAVINGS TO PROMOTE DOMESTIC ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT. HE SAYS THAT IT IS NECESSARY TO MAKE INTEREST RECEIVED ON SAVINGS ACCOUNTS IN THE COUNTRY'S BANKS MORE ATTRACTIVE SO THAT CAPITAL DOES NOT LEAVE THE COUNTRY. REGARDING THE COUNTRY'S CURRENCY, CRISTIANI SAYS: "WE FEEL THAT CURRENCY VALUE SHOULD BE BASED ON THE AVAILABILITY OF AND DEMAND FOR FOREIGN EXCHANGE. WE DO NOT THINK IT IS APPROPRIATE FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO ARBITRARILY DEVALUE AND FIX AN EXCHANGE RATE ON THE SALVADORAN COLON. EVERYTHING MUST BE BASED ON THE FOREIGN EXCHANGE OUR COUNTRY MAY HAVE TO PAY OUT FOR IMPORTS, BECAUSE IF WE WERE TO FIX THE RATE AT 10 [COLONES] TO 1 [DOLLAR], THE CENTRAL BANKS STILL WOULD NOT HAVE ENOUGH FOREIGN EXCHANGE TO COVER ALL THE IMPORTERS' DEMANDS."</p><p>FURTHER DETAILS AS AVAILABLE.</p></body></html>