<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0021"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0021"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0021</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0021</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 16 JUN 89 (RADIO CADENA SONORA) -- [INTERVIEW WITH SALVADORAN VICE PRESIDENT AND INTERIOR MINISTER FRANCISCO MERINO BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] SALVADORAN VICE PRESIDENT AND INTERIOR MINISTER FRANCISCO MERINO REFERRED TO THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] DOCUMENT ISSUED HOURS AGO, WHICH DENIED ANY RESPONSIBILITY IN DR JOSE ANTONIO RODRIGUEZ PORTH'S DEATH:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MERINO] THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] HAS BEEN ACTING ERRATICALLY FOR SOME TIME; ALL ITS ACTIONS ARE QUITE ERRATIC. THE FMLN PLANS THAT THE ARMED FORCES RECENTLY SEIZED INCLUDE A STRATEGY IN WHICH THE FMLN IS TO CREATE CONFUSION AMONG THE POPULATION BY NOT CLAIMING RESPONSIBILITY FOR CERTAIN KINDS OF ACTIONS AND CRIMES. UNDER THESE GUIDELINES, THE FMLN HAS NOT CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR ITS ACTIONS, TO INSINUATE...[CHANGES THOUGHT] TO CREATE CONFUSION OR GIVE THE IMPRESSION THIS IS A VIOLENT SITUATION THAT HAS ARISEN BETWEEN POLITICAL GROUPS IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>FORTUNATELY THERE IS EVIDENCE. THE ARMED FORCES HAVE THE DOCUMENTS THAT PROVE THAT THIS IS A STRATEGY CARRIED OUT BY TERRORIST GROUPS TO PERPETRATE THIS KIND OF ACTION AND PROVOKE A CONFRONTATION BETWEEN THE POLITICAL AND DEMOCRATIC FORCES IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>OTHER VALUABLE INFORMATION HAS BEEN UNCOVERED, BUT I BELIEVE IT IS MORE APPROPRIATE FOR THE PUBLIC SECURITY AUTHORITIES TO REVEAL THIS. TERRORISTS HAVE RECENTLY ISSUED DECLARATIONS REVEALING THIS STRATEGY, THEIR MODUS OPERANDI, AND THE PLANS THEY HAVE FOR THE NEAR FUTURE. THEY HAVE PLANS TO CONTINUE DEALING BLOWS AGAINST THE NEW ADMINISTRATION THROUGH ITS OFFICIALS TO FORCE CONDITIONS FOR NEGOTIATIONS IN THE NEAR FUTURE -- AS THEY DID WITH FORMER PRESIDENT DUARTE'S GOVERNMENT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>VICE PRESIDENT MERINO ALSO REFERRED TO ANOTHER TOPIC IN THE NEWS, THE ANTITERRORIST LAW:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MERINO] WE UNDERSTAND THE BILL HAS ALREADY BEEN SENT TO THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY. THERE IS [WORDS INDISTINCT] FOR THE DEFENSE OF DEMOCRACY, AND ANOTHER ONE THAT REFERS TO THE ANTITERRORIST LAW. THE TRUTH IS THAT THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH HAS BEEN QUITE CLEAR IN ITS POSITION, WHICH WAS STATED BY THE VICE PRESIDENCY.</p><p>THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH HAS CLEARLY STATED IT CANNOT LET THESE PEOPLE CONTINUE OPERATING WITHOUT RESTRICTIONS OR CONTROLS, VIOLATING THE LAW, DISRUPTING SOCIAL LIFE, AND DIRECTLY AFFECTING THE [WORDS INDISTINCT]. THE GOVERNMENT AND THE PEOPLE MUST BE PROTECTED BY EFFECTIVE LAWS SO THE PUBLIC SECURITY FORCES CAN CONTROL THE SITUATION AND SO THEIR ACTIVITIES ARE NOT INTERPRETED AS AN ABUSE OF AUTHORITY. [WORDS INDISTINCT] PENAL CODE THAT CONTEMPLATES ALL THE SENTENCES FOR TERRORIST CRIMES; HOWEVER, THEY HAVE PROVED INEFFECTIVE BECAUSE THEY MAY LACK THE PROCEDURES NEEDED IN OUR CURRENT SITUATION. THOSE LAWS DATE BACK MANY DECADES; IT WAS NEVER FORESEEN THAT EL SALVADOR COULD REACH THE CURRENT DETERIORATED SITUATION, IN WHICH PEOPLE ARE KILLED AND THE CULPRITS CALMLY WALK AWAY. NEWSPAPERS [WORDS INDISTINCT] SAY THAT SINCE WE ARE AT WAR, IT IS EASY FOR THEM TO KILL.</p><p>[REPORTER] IT IS RUMORED THAT THE LAW [PASSAGE INDISTINCT].</p><p>[MERINO] THE PROVISIONS ALREADY EXIST; ALL WE HAVE TO DO IS HARMONIZE THEM. WE MUST FULFILL OUR OBLIGATION. THE CONSTITUTION [WORDS INDISTINCT] STATED THAT EVERY SECONDARY LAW SHOULD BE HARMONIZED WITH THE CONSTITUTION. IN THIS CASE, THE PENAL CODE, THE PROVISIONS HAVE BEEN NEGLECTED TO A CERTAIN POINT, AND IT IS IMPERATIVE -- IF WE ARE GOING TO ABIDE BY THE CONSTITUTION -- TO ADAPT THEM TO OUR SITUATION. [WORDS INDISTINCT] SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND NO OFFICIAL OF A FRIENDLY COUNTRY CAN INTERFERE WITH THIS.</p><p>I RECENTLY TOLD SOME JOURNALISTS WHO ARE MY FRIENDS THAT VICE PRESIDENT QUAYLE'S GOAL WAS TO COME AND REAFFIRM HIS GOVERNMENT'S SUPPORT OF THE NEW SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT. HE DID IT ON THIS DATE BECAUSE ON 1 JUNE HE WAS IN CHARGE OF THE U.S. PRESIDENCY WHILE PRESIDENT BUSH WAS IN EUROPE. HIS VISIT TO EL SALVADOR WAS NOT A MERE COINCIDENCE. HE CAME TO REAFFIRM THE U.S. GOVERNMENT'S SUPPORT OF PRESIDENT CRISTIANI'S GOVERNMENT. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>