<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0047"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0047"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MOSCOW (USSR)"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0047</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0047</p><p>MOSCOW (USSR), 12 OCT 89 (MOSCOW) -- [REPORT] [UNIDENTIFIED ANNOUNCER FROM SANTIAGO] [TEXT] THE MOST PRESSING DEMANDS OF THE CHILEAN PEOPLE HAVE BEEN BROUGHT UP IN THE ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN. ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT ACHIEVEMENTS OF THIS CAMPAIGN HAS BEEN THE COMBINING OF THE CAMPAIGN WITH THE JUST ECONOMIC, POLITICAL, AND SOCIAL DEMANDS THAT THE DEMOCRATIC FORCES AND THE POPULAR MOVEMENT HAVE BEEN MAKING FOR THESE 16 YEARS OF DICTATORSHIP. THESE DEMANDS ARE RELATED TO THE STRUGGLE AGAINST REPRESSION, THE DEFENSE OF HUMAN RIGHTS, THE DENUNCIATION OF CRIMES COMMITTED BY THE REGIME, AND EFFORTS TO FIGHT IMMUNITY AND THE SUPPRESSION OF THE TRUTH REGARDING TORTURE, DISAPPEARANCES, AND ASSASSINATIONS. THESE QUESTIONS HAVE ONCE AGAIN COME INTO THE SPOTLIGHT NOW THAT MANY RIGHTIST CANDIDATES ARE DEMAGOGICALLY ATTEMPTING TO POSE AS DEFENDERS OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND SINCE EL MERCURIO HAS REPORTED THAT THE DICTATOR IS PLANNING TO CONVERT THE CNI [NATIONAL INFORMATION CENTER] INTO AN AGENCY OF THE ARMY SO THAT THE MAIN REPRESSIVE BODY FROM ALL THESE YEARS CAN BE UNDER HIS DIRECT CONTROL. JAIME INZUNZA, LEADER OF THE UNITED LEFT AND THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHILE, DISCUSSES THESE TOPICS OVER A DIRECT PHONE LINE FROM SANTIAGO, CHILE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ANNOUNCER] HOW ARE THE CHILEAN PEOPLE'S DEMANDS CONNECTED TO THE ONGOING ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN?</p><p>[INZUNZA] THEY ARE CONNECTED THROUGH THE DEMOCRATIZATION OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD BOARDS DURING THE ELECTORAL PROCESS; THE STRENGTHENING OF THE UNIFIED ACTIONS OF WORKERS; THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMITTEES FOR VICTORY, WHICH WILL ALSO BE COMMITTEES FOR THE DEFENSE OF VICTORY AND COMMITTEES FOR CARRYING ON THE DEMOCRATIC TASK; THE DEVELOPMENT OF CONFIDENCE; THE STRUGGLE FOR HUMAN RIGHTS, PARTICULARLY CONCERNING TRUTH AND JUSTICE AND IMMUNITY FOR CRIMES; THE INCREASING PRESSURE BY THE IMMENSE MAJORITY OF THE POPULATION FOR THE RELEASE OF ALL POLITICAL PRISONERS; AND NATURALLY FOR THE DISSOLUTION OF THE CNI. ALL OF THESE QUESTIONS ARE BEING BROUGHT UP IN THE ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN, AND AGREEMENTS HAVE BEEN REACHED WITHIN SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS. THIS WAS EVIDENCED A WEEK AGO BY THE SALVADORA STRIKE AND BY THE CURRENT STRIKE BY COAL MINERS. THIS PROVES THAT THE PEOPLE HAVE UNDERSTOOD THAT THE ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN HAS TO BE AN EXPRESSION OF THEIR ACTIVITIES AND A WAY TO STRENGTHEN THEIR SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS FOR THE FUTURE STRUGGLE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE PRECEDING COMMENTS WERE MADE BY COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHILE LEADER JAIME INZUNZA, WHO HAS BEEN INTERVIEWED OVER THE TELEPHONE ON OUR PROGRAM "ESCUCHA CHILE." ANOTHER TOPIC DISCUSSED BY INZUNZA WAS THE EL MERCURIO REPORT ON THE CNI'S TRANSFER TO THE ARMY. THE DISSOLUTION OF THE CNI HAS BECOME ONE OF THE MOST PRESSING DEMANDS OF THE IMMENSE MAJORITY OF CHILEANS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ANNOUNCER] WHAT IS YOUR OPINION, JAIME INZUNZA, ON THE DICTATOR'S INTENTION TO MAINTAIN THE CNI AS IT IS AND TO KEEP IT UNDER HIS DIRECT COMMAND?</p><p>[INZUNZA] I BELIEVE THAT THIS ISSUE IS PARTICULARLY SERIOUS. THE INTENTION IS TO MAINTAIN INTACT THE MAIN TERRORIST APPARATUS OF THE DICTATORSHIP, WHICH HAS BEEN RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MOST FLAGRANT VIOLATIONS OF HUMAN RIGHTS THROUGHOUT THE YEARS OF ITS EXISTENCE. I UNDERSTAND THAT THE DINA [NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE DIRECTORATE, REPLACED BY CNI] AND THE CNI HAVE BEEN IN FACT A SINGLE APPARATUS AND THEREFORE THE MAIN ORGANS OF STATE TERRORRISM OVER THE PAST 15 YEARS. IF TRANSFERRED TO THE ARMY, THE CNI WOULD CONTINUE TO BE UNDER PINOCHET'S ORDERS. UNDER WHOSE ORDERS HAS IT BEEN ALL THESE YEARS? FOR WHOM HAS IT BEEN A DIRECT AGENT ALL THESE YEARS? HENCEFORTH IT WILL BE UNDER THE CONTROL OF THE OFFICE OF THE COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF THE ARMY. [END RECORDING]</p><p>COMMUNIST LEADER JAIME INZUNZA ADDED THAT PINOCHET'S INTENT IN TRANSFERRING THE CNI TO THE ARMY'S DIRECT COMMAND IS TO MAKE THE INSTITUTION AN ACCOMPLICE IN CONCEALING PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN RESPONSIBLE FOR CRIMES AND HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [INZUNZA] THE IDEA IS TO INVOLVE THE MILITARY INSTITUTION IN CRIMES FOR WHICH THE CHILEAN PEOPLE KNOWS IT WAS NOT RESPONSIBLE. THIS IS CLEAR: WHAT THE DEMOCRATIC OPPOSITION FORCES WANT IS TO HAVE THE CULPRITS BEHIND THOSE CRIMES AND HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS PROSECUTED, NOT THE MILITARY INSTITUTION. THE TRANSFER OF THE CNI TO THE ARMY IS AN ATTEMPT TO MAKE THE MEN IN UNIFORM ACT AS ACCOMPLICES OR ACCESSORIES TO THOSE CRIMES. LOYALTY IS NOT AT STAKE HERE; LOYALTY IS DEFENDING VALUES AND PRINCIPLES, NOT SOME SORT OF CRIMINAL COMPLICITY THAT IS NOT IN LINE WITH THE TRAINING OF THESE MEN. THIS SEEMS TO ME TO BE PARTICULARLY SERIOUS BECAUSE THIS TRANSFER IMPLIES MAINTAINING THE CNI UNDER THE ORDERS OF THE MAN RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CRIMES COMMITTED ALL THESE YEARS, THE DICTATOR HIMSELF. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THESE HAVE BEEN ANSWERS GIVEN BY JAIME INZUNZA, UNITED LEFT AND COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHILE LEADER, TO QUESTIONS PUT TO HIM OVER THE PHONE BY "ESCUCHA CHILE," A RADIO MOSCOW INTERNATIONAL PROGRAM.</p></body></html>