<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0072"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0072"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0072</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0072</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 1 DEC 89 (RADIO CORPORACION) -- [TEXT] LA PRENSA NEWSPAPER TODAY REPORTED THAT THE SANDINISTS DID SEND A PLANE TO EL SALVADOR. THE AIRCRAFT IS A CESSNA 310. THE IDENTITY OF THE CREWMEN IN THE NICARAGUAN PLANES THAT CRASHED IN EL SALVADOR OVER THE PAST WEEKEND CARRYING SOVIET ARMS IS A STATE SECRET ACCEDED TO BY LA PRENSA THIS MORNING AFTER GETTING IN TOUCH WITH A HIGH-RANKING SOURCE IN THE SANDINIST ARMY. THE SOURCE DISCLOSED FURTHER DETAILS OF THE BUTTERFLY OPERATION. THE ARMY SOURCE, WHICH OF COURSE REQUESTED TO REMAIN ANONYMOUS, CONFIRMED THAT THE PLANE THAT CRASHED IN SAN MIGUEL BELONGS TO NICARAGUA AND THAT THE PLANE'S REGISTRATION IS YANKEE NOVEMBER BRAVO YANKEE KILO.</p><p>THERE ARE NO REPORTS SO FAR AS TO WHETHER ANY RELATIVES HAVE CLAIMED THE BODIES OF THE FOUR MILITARY MEN WHO WERE REPORTEDLY KILLED WHEN THE PLANE CRASHED. THREE OF THE CREWMEN WERE KILLED INSTANTLY, WHILE THE FOURTH COMMITTED SUICIDE. A PICTURE OF A YOUNG CUBAN GIRL, DATED IN JULY, IS THE ONLY PUBLISHED CLUE AS TO THE IDENTITY OF THE MEN, WHETHER NICARAGUANS, CUBANS, OR SALVADORANS, COMMISSIONED FOR THIS CLANDESTINE MISSION DIRECTED FROM NICARAGUA. OUR SOURCE SAID THAT YOUNG SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS WERE TRAINED AT THE NATIONAL CIVILIAN FLIGHT SCHOOL OVER THE PAST FEW MONTHS. THE TRAINING WAS SUPERVISED BY CAPTAIN ROBIN ROMERO, THE FLIGHT SCHOOL'S DIRECTOR. THE TRAINING WAS ALSO CONDUCTED AT PUNTA HUETE AND LOS BRASILES. MOST OF THE FLIGHTS WERE MADE AT NIGHT. THE STUDENT PILOTS USED OIL LAMPS AS LANDING LIGHTS. THE SOURCE SAID THE TRAINING FLIGHTS WERE CONDUCTED IN LIGHT SINGLE-ENGINE PLANES FROM SANDINO AIRPORT TO PUNTA HUETE OR LOS BRASILES.</p><p>THE HEAD OF THIS OPERATION WAS COMMANDER CHRISTIAN PICHARDO. IN THE OPERATION ALSO PARTICIPATED TWO SALVADORAN GUERRILLA COMMANDERS WHOSE IDENTITIES ARE UNKNOWN. THE CESSNA 310 HAD BEEN LEASED BY THE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK [BND], WHICH IN TURN HAD ACQUIRED THE PLANE FROM THE ZETA NATIONAL CHARTER SERVICE, AN AERONICA SUBSIDIARY. BND ADMINISTRATIVE DIRECTOR MARCOS BLANDON GRAVY LEASED THE PLANE, ONE OF SEVERAL AIRCRAFT INTENDED TO BE SENT TO EL SALVADOR. ANOTHER SINGLE-ENGINE CESSNA, WITH REGISTRATION CHARLIE BRAVO PAPA, AND AN AERO COMMANDER, WERE ADDED TO THE INVENTORY. ACCORDING TO OUR SOURCE, THE AERO COMMANDER WAS CONFISCATED FROM COLOMBIAN DRUG TRAFFICKERS IN PUERTO CABEZAS A YEAR AGO WHEN THEY WERE INTERCEPTED BY SANDINIST AIR FORCE [FAS] PLANES. THE PLANES INVOLVED IN THE OPERATION, HOWEVER, REMAINED UNEQUIPPED TO FLY TO EL SALVADOR UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>