<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0076"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0076"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0076</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0076</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 13 DEC 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] COMRADES: A NEW ELEMENT THAT WE MUST ANALYZE AND EXPLAIN EMERGED AT THE CONCLUSION OF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS' EMERGENCY MEETING. LET US SEE FIRST WHY THE MEETING TOOK PLACE. THE MAIN REASON IS THE VERY COMPLICATED PREDICAMENT IN WHICH OUR OFFENSIVE HAS PLACED CRISTIANI AND THE HIGH COMMAND. AS YOU WILL REMEMBER, THE GOVERNMENT HAS MET WITH MUCH INTERNATIONAL DISREPUTE AND ISOLATION BECAUSE OF THE BRUTAL ASSASSINATION OF JESUIT PRIESTS AND THE BOMBING OF THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. LET US RECALL, AS A SIGNIFICANT FACT, THAT THE UNITED NATIONS HAS CONDEMNED THE GOVERNMENT BECAUSE OF ALL IT HAS DONE, ESPECIALLY BECAUSE OF THE LATEST ATROCITIES. ON THAT OCCASION, EL SALVADOR WAS THE ONLY COUNTRY THAT VOTED AGAINST THAT RESOLUTION WHILE 96 COUNTRIES VOTED IN FAVOR.</p><p>WE MENTION THIS CASE AS A MOST SIGNIFICANT ONE, BUT THE FACT IS THAT THERE HAS BEEN SO MUCH WORLDWIDE CONDEMNATION THAT THE DICTATORSHIP HAS FOUND ITSELF IN A REALLY DESPERATE SITUATION. THIS WAS A CAUSE OF CONCERN FOR THE NORTH AMERICANS.</p><p>TO WHOM COULD THEY TURN AT A TIME WHEN ALL INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS HAD TURNED THEIR BACKS ON CRISTIANI? THE NORTH AMERICANS HAD TO RESORT TO SOME FORUM THAT WOULD NOT CONDEMN THE GENOCIDAL REGIME AND THAT, ON THE CONTRARY, WOULD PROVIDE SUPPORT IN SPITE OF ALL THE ATROCITIES THE REGIME HAS COMMITTED.</p><p>THE MOST SUITABLE IDEA WAS TO PROMOTE AN EMERGENCY MEETING OF CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS, BECAUSE IN CENTRAL AMERICA, AS WE ALL KNOW, THE NORTH AMERICANS HAVE HAD THEIR BACKYARD AND MOST OF THESE COUNTRIES SERVE THEIR INTERESTS.</p><p>THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO TRY TO PULL CRISTIANI OUT OF INTERNATIONAL ISOLATION.</p><p>UNDER WHAT CONDITIONS DID SUMMIT TAKE PLACE? WE HAVE TO SAY FIRST THAT THE PRESIDENTS OF EL SALVADOR AND COSTA RICA, AND PROBABLY OF GUATEMALA, HAD REACHED AN AGREEMENT PRIOR TO THE MEETING. THE SUBJECT OF THE DISCUSSION WAS A DOCUMENT DRAFTED BY ARIAS AND CEREZO. THIS DOCUMENT EXPRESSED SUPPORT FOR CRISTIANI FROM THE VERY BEGINNING. JOSEPH SULLIVAN, A U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL IN CHARGE OF LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS, AS WELL AS OTHER U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS, WERE PRESENT AT THE MEETING. THE COSTA RICAN AMBASSADOR TO NICARAGUA -- A PRO-U.S. MAN WHO INTRODUCED THE NICARAGUAN CONTRAS AT THE MEETING -- WAS ALSO PRESENT, CONSPIRING ALL THE TIME. THE FMLN WAS NOT EVEN ALLOWED TO ENTER COSTA RICA.</p><p>HOWEVER, IN SPITE OF THE FACT THAT THE MEETING HAD BEEN FIXED AND IN SPITE OF THE U.S. PRESENCE, THE AGREEMENT TO SUPPORT CRISTIANI WAS ACHIEVED ALMOST AT THE PRICE OF KILLING THE ESQUIPULAS AGREEMENT. IT WAS NOT EASY. THE U.S. WILL TO CONDEMN THE FMLN AND TO BACK CRISTIANI PREVAILED IN THE MIDST OF MUCH BICKERING AND THE INSOLENCE OF THE HONDURAN PRESIDENT.</p><p>AS YOU CAN SEE, IT WAS NOT EASY TO FIND SUPPORT FOR THE GENOCIDAL REGIME EVEN IN PLACES WHERE THE NORTH AMERICANS THINK THEY HAVE THE BULL BY THE HORNS.</p><p>LET US SEE, AS A THIRD POINT, IN WHAT THE DECLARATION CONSISTS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>