<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0029"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0029"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0029</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0029</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 11 AUG 89 (RADIO FARABUNDO MARTI) -- [TEXT] WE HAVE REPORTS FROM THE FELICIANO AMA WESTERN FRONT AND THE ANASTASIO AQUINO PARA-CENTRAL FRONT:</p><p>THE FIRST REPORT INDICATES THAT AT 0745 ON 6 AUGUST, SNIPERS ATTACKED THE CIVILIAN DEFENSE POST IN THE VILLAGE OF EL AHOGADO, CANTON LA ISLA, METAPAN MUNICIPALITY. OUR FORCES INFLICTED ONE ENEMY CASUALTY. AT 1330 THAT SAME DAY, ENEMY POSITIONS LOCATED IN CERRO MAJATEPEQUE, MASAHUAT JURISDICTION, SANTA ANA DEPARTMENT WERE ATTACKED WITH RIFLE FIRE AND THEY SUSTAINED ANOTHER CASUALTY.</p><p>ON 7 AUGUST, OUR FORCES CLASHED WITH THE 2D INFANTRY BRIGADE, WHICH WAS CARRYING OUT AN OPERATION IN NORTHERN METAPAN. FOLLOWING IS THE RESULT OF THE CLASHES: AT 0900 WE INFLICTED TWO CASUALTIES, ONE WITH A MINE AND ANOTHER BY SNIPERFIRE NEAR FINCA EL PINAL. TWO MORE CASUALTIES WERE INFLICTED AT 1025 NEAR PLAN GALAN. WE INFLICTED TWO MORE CASUALTIES AT 1050, WHEN WE CARRIED OUT AN AMBUSH WITH RIFLE FIRE AT PUERTAS NEGRAS. TWO HELICOPTERS ARRIVED AT 1200; ONE WAS A TRANSPORT HELICOPTER AND THE OTHER WAS A ROCKET LAUNCHING HELICOPTER. OUR ANTI-AIRCRAFT UNITS OPENED FIRE [WORDS INDISTINCT] AND ONE OF THE HELICOPTERS FLEW ABOUT THE AREA FOR AN HOUR AND FIRED ROCKETS AT THE SITE OF THE CLASH. AT 1550, WE INFLICTED A CASUALTY WITH A MINE AT EL PINAL FARM, AND AT 1630 WE INFLICTED ANOTHER CASUALTY WITH A MINE. BY 1800, WE HAD INFLICTED 10 ENEMY CASUALTIES, THUS CONCLUDING THIS DAY OF VICTORIOUS COMBATS.</p><p>OUR COMBAT CONTINUED ON 8 AUGUST. OUR FORCES CLASHED WITH A COMBINED 2D INFANTRY BRIGADE AND NATIONAL POLICE PATROL IN THE VILLAGE OF LAS MARIAS, [NAME INDISTINCT] JURISDICTION. [WORDS INDISTINCT] AT FINCA MIRAMAR, INFLICTING THREE MORE CASUALTIES ON THE 2D INFANTRY BRIGADE TROOPS.</p><p>THE CLASHES CONTINUED ON 9 AUGUST: AT 1600, OUR SNIPERS ATTACKED THE 2D INFANTRY BRIGADE TROOPS NEAR FINCA EL LIMON, AND WE INFLICTED ONE CASUALTY.</p><p>IN SUM, WE HAVE INFLICTED 16 CASUALTIES ON THE ENEMY IN CLASHES THAT OCCURRED BETWEEN 6 AND 9 AUGUST.</p></body></html>