<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0039"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0039"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0039</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0039</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 18 SEP 89 (TELEONCE) -- [TEXT] THE TOPIC ABOUT VIOLENCE AND THE PROCEDURES ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENT TO COUNTER IT WERE DISCUSSED ON 18 SEPTEMBER DURING THE INAUGURATION OF THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC INTERNATIONAL WORLD ASSEMBLY. GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO GAVE THE INAUGURATION SPEECH AND REVEALED THE PLANS TO DESTABILIZE THE COUNTRY.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CEREZO] THERE ARE SOME STUBBORN PEOPLE WHO REFUSE TO ACCEPT THAT PEOPLE WANT TO LIVE PEACEFULLY AND FREELY. THERE ARE EVEN SOME PEOPLE WHO ARE USING VIOLENCE TO IMPOSE THEIR IDEAS; THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE WHO WANT TO COUNTER THE GUATEMALAN PEOPLE'S IDEAS WITH CONFRONTATION AND POLARIZATION. THOSE PERSONS ARE PREPARING RIGHT NOW A PLOT AGAINST GUATEMALA'S DEMOCRACY. IT IS PERHAPS THE MOST CRUEL, HARSH, AND AUDACIOUS PLOT EVER PREPARED IN THE NATION'S 4 YEARS OF DEMOCRATIC HISTORY, BECAUSE -- AND I WANT YOU TO CAREFULLY LISTEN TO THIS -- THEY HAVE DECIDED TO KILL PROMINENT POLITICAL AND LABOR LEADERS SO THAT THE PEOPLE BLAME THE GOVERNMENT -- REMEMBERING THE TRAGEDIES WHICH OCCURRED IN THE PAST AND THE ILLEGITIMATE GOVERNMENTS WHICH DECIDED TO KEEP, WITH DEATH AND REPRESSION, THE PRIVILEGES THAT THEY HAD NOT EARNED.</p><p>THESE PEOPLE ARE TRYING TO CREATE A RIFT BETWEEN THE GUATEMALAN PEOPLE AND GOVERNMENT; THEY WANT US TO FALL INTO A TRAP. [END RECORDING]</p><p>PRESIDENT CEREZO ADDRESSED THE DELEGATES OF 54 COUNTRIES WHO ARE PARTICIPATING IN THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC INTERNATIONAL WORLD ASSEMBLY, ASSERTING THAT THE EFFORTS TO BE EXERTED BY HIS GOVERNMENT TO COUNTER TERRORISM SHOULD BE UNDERSTOOD BY THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY. HE SAID NO ONE SHOULD CONDEMN HIS GOVERNMENT WITHOUT FULLY UNDERSTANDING THE SITUATION.</p><p>PRESIDENT CEREZO ALSO PLEDGED TO USE EVERY AVAILABLE MEANS TO LOCATE THOSE WHO PERPETRATE ACTS OF TERRORISM.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CEREZO] -- [BROADCAST IN PROGRESS] ...CRIMINALS AND WE ARE ALREADY LOOKING FOR THEM! [APPLAUSE] AND WE WILL PUNISH THEM ACCORDING TO THE LAW, TO GIVE BACK TO THE GUATEMALAN PEOPLE THE LIBERTY THAT THEY HAVE ENJOYED FOR 3 AND 1/2 YEARS -- BECAUSE IT IS THE RESULT OF MANY YEARS OF SACRIFICE! [APPLAUSE] [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>