<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0093"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0093"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0093</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0093</p><p>BOGOTA, 23 MAR 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [REPORT] [ORLANDO GUERRERO] [TEXT] GOOD EVENING, A COMMUNIQUE HAS JUST BEEN ISSUED AT THE NATIONAL CAPITOL. THE COMMUNIQUE HAS BEEN SIGNED BY ALL THE DEMOCRATIC FORCES OF THE COUNTRY, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE LIBERAL PARTY. THE COMMUNIQUE ASKS THE GOVERNMENT TO OFFER FULL GUARANTEES DURING THE ELECTIONS PROCESS AND TO POSTPONE THE ELECTIONS. THE FOLLOWING IS THE COMMUNIQUE THAT HAS BEEN ISSUED IN THE ELIPTICO ROOM OF THE NATIONAL CAPITOL:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER] WE REPORT TO THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE AND THE PEOPLE OF THE WORLD THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>1. WE ONCE AGAIN CONDEMN THE VILE MURDER OF PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE DR. BERNARDO JARAMILLO. THIS MURDER HAS MADE EVIDENT THE LACK OF GUARANTEES IN THE COUNTRY, GUARANTEES THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS SYSTEMATICALLY DENIED THE OPPOSITION PARTIES. WE REJECT THE MANIPULATIONS IN WHICH OFFICIAL ORGANIZATIONS ARE ENGAGED IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATING THIS CRIME.</p><p>2. WE DENOUNCE THAT THE OFFICIAL APPARATUS IS AT THE SERVICE OF ONLY ONE CANDIDATE AND THAT IT IS PREPARED TO ESTABLISH PARTY PREDOMINANCE THAT WOULD IN PRACTICE BE A REJECTION OF DEMOCRATIC PLURALISM.</p><p>3. WE DEMAND FULL GUARANTEES FOR ALL THE FORCES PARTICIPATING IN THE ELECTIONS AND EQUITABLE ACCESS TO THE STATE MEDIA SO THAT THESE FORCES CAN MAKE KNOWN THEIR POLITICAL POSITIONS.</p><p>4. WE REQUEST GUARANTEES THAT THE NEW ELECTORAL SYSTEM WILL NOT HAVE THE SAME DIFFICULTIES THAT EXISTED DURING THE 11 MARCH ELECTIONS, THE RESULTS OF WHICH ARE STILL UNKNOWN.</p><p>5. UNDER THE CURRENT CONDITIONS, WE ASK OUR REPRESENTATIVES IN THE NATIONAL ELECTORAL COUNCIL TO ABSTAIN FROM PARTICIPATING IN DISCUSSIONS AND DECISIONS OF THAT COUNCIL.</p><p>6. IN VIEW OF THESE CIRCUMSTANCES, WE HAVE AGREED TO TEMPORARILY SUSPEND OUR ELECTION CAMPAIGNS AND DEMAND A POSTPONEMENT OF THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS SCHEDULED FOR 27 MAY.</p><p>7. WE INSIST THAT THE RATIFICATION OF CARLOS LEMOS SIMMONDS IN THE GOVERNMENT MINISTRY REPRESENTS THE BIGGEST OBSTACLE TO THE DEMOCRATIC OPPOSITION TO FINDING AN INSTITUTIONAL INTERLOCUTOR IN NATIONAL GOVERNMENT.</p><p>8. WE ANNOUNCE THE IMMEDIATE PRESENCE OF INTERNATIONAL [WORDS INDISTINCT] TO VERIFY THAT THE ELECTORAL GUARANTEES WE ARE DEMANDING ARE GRANTED AND TO OBSERVE THE ELECTIONS PROCESS.</p><p>9. THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE OF THE OPPOSITION HEREBY STATES ITS DECISION TO WORK FOR THE FORMATION OF A CONSTITUENT NATIONAL ASSEMBLY THAT MUST HAVE A DEMOCRATIC AND PLURALISTIC COMPOSITION WITH THE DECIDING PARTICIPATION OF THE NATIONAL [WORD INDISTINCT] TO APPROVE A NEW CONSTITUTION AND TO CONTRIBUTE TOWARD FINDING POLITICAL SOLUTIONS TO THE SOCIAL CONFLICT OF COLOMBIA. WE APPEAL TO THE LEADERS OF THE COUNTRY TO URGE THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT TO DEFEND AND RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS.</p><p>10. WE REITERATE OUR POSITION THAT THE ONLY WAY OUT OF THE ARMED CONFLICT IN THE COUNTRY IS A NEGOTIATED POLITICAL SOLUTION.</p><p>11. WE URGE THE LIBERAL PARTY TO POSTPONE ITS NATIONAL CONVENTION IN SOLIDARITY WITH THE PATRIOTIC UNION AND THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE.</p><p>12. WE ACKNOWLEDGE THE CATHOLIC CHURCH'S CALL AND WE WILL PROMOTE THIS CALL THROUGH THIS COMMITTEE.</p><p>13. IN DEFENSE OF A PLURALISTIC DEMOCRACY WE WILL MAINTAIN THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE OF THE OPPOSITION WE HAVE CREATED. WE HEREBY ASK OUR FOLLOWERS AND ALL OUR COUNTRYMEN TO REMAIN ON A STATE OF ALERT.</p><p>THIS COMMITTEE WILL HOLD A NEW MEETING TUESDAY 27 MARCH, AT 1500, IN THE CHAMBER OF REPRESENTATIVES. WE URGE ALL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL FORCES INTERESTED IN THESE OBJECTIVES TO ACTIVELY PARTICIPATE IN THIS MEETING.</p><p>RESOLUTION;</p><p>DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISM, THE POPULAR MOVEMENT [WORDS INDISTINCT], THE BROAD FRONT [WORDS INDISTINCT], THE NATIONALIST ACTION FOR PEACE, AND THE 19 APRIL MOVEMENT [M-19] WANT TO LEAVE ON RECORD THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>THE NEGOTIATION PROCESS BETWEEN THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT AND M-19 THAT BEGAN ON 10 JANUARY 1989 AND THAT PRODUCED ON 9 MARCH 1990 A PEACE AGREEMENT WILL BE AFFECTED BY THE MURDER OF BERNARDO JARAMILLO, BUT WILL NOT RESULT IN AN END TO THE SEARCH FOR PEACE BY THE TWO PARTIES.</p><p>WE WILL CONTINUE TO WORK FOR A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE ARMED CONFLICT IN COLOMBIA. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>