<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0026"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0026"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0026</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0026</p><p>SANTIAGO, 16 JUL 89 -- [STATEMENT] [CHILEAN SOCIALIST PARTY, PS] [TEXT]</p><p>1. DURING THE YEARS OF DICTATORSHIP, CHILEAN FOREIGN RELATIONS WERE DIVIDED INTO TWO PROCESSES. ON THE ONE HAND, AS THE DICTATORSHIP BECAME MORE AND MORE ISOLATED, IT WAS INCREASINGLY CONDEMNED IN INTERNATIONAL FORA AND REPUDIATED BY INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC OPINION. ON THE OTHER HAND, AS MORE AND MORE COUNTRIES AND ORGANIZATIONS EXPRESSED THEIR SUPPORT FOR A FREE CHILE AND GENEROUSLY GRANTED THEIR SOLIDARITY TO OUR CAUSE, OUR ORGANIZATIONS AND DEMOCRATIC PARTIES BECAME INCREASINGLY OPEN TO THE WORLD. THUS, THEY EXPANDED THEIR HORIZONS AND CONTRIBUTED THEIR EXPERIENCES.</p><p>2. DURING THIS PERIOD, THE PARTY HAS SUBSTANTIALLY STRENGTHENED ITS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND ENHANCED ITS VISION OF THE INTERNATIONAL SITUATION. IT HAS STRENGTHENED ITS TIES WITH THE LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES' REVOLUTIONARY AND DEMOCRATIC CAUSE, AND IT HAS FULLY IMMERSED ITSELF IN THE GREAT DEBATES OF WORLD SOCIALISM. TO THESE DEBATES WE BROUGHT OUR VIEWS ON A PROFOUNDLY RENEWED LEFTIST SOCIALISM COMMITTED TO DEMOCRACY, DEVELOPMENT, AND SOCIAL CHANGE.</p><p>3. OUR RELATIONS WITH THE PARTIES THAT MAKE UP THE INTERNATIONAL SOCIALIST [SI] AND WITH THE SI ORGANIZATION ITSELF HAVE BEEN ENRICHED WITHIN THIS CONTEXT. THIS STRENGTHENING OF TIES HAS BEEN THE RESULT OF TWO THINGS. FIRST, IT IS BASED ON THE POSITION THAT IN COMPLIANCE WITH ITS PRINCIPLES THE SI HAS UPHELD REGARDING THE CHILEAN SITUATION. IN OCTOBER 1973, A FEW DAYS AFTER THE COUP, SI CHAIRMAN WILLY BRANDT CONDEMNED THE END OF THE CHILEAN DEMOCRACY AND PRESIDENT ALLENDE'S ASSASSINATION AT THE UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY. AT THE TIME HE ALSO SAID THIS WAS A GREAT STEP BACKWARD FOR THOSE WHO ASPIRED TO ACHIEVE SOCIALISM THROUGH DEMOCRATIC MEANS. SINCE THEN, THE SI HAS BEEN PERMANENTLY MOBILIZED IN FAVOR OF CHILE BY MAKING THE CHILEAN CAUSE AND SALVADOR ALLENDE THE SYMBOLS OF ALL INTERNATIONAL STRUGGLE FOR DEMOCRACY AND CHANGE. IT IS WITHIN THIS FRAMEWORK OF INTEREST AND COOPERATION THAT THE VOICE OF CHILEAN SOCIALISM HAS BEEN HEARD AND OUR IDEAS AND PROPOSALS PRAISED.</p><p>4. THE SECOND REASON STEMS FROM THE PROCESS OF EXPANSION AND TRANSFORMATION EXPERIENCED BY THE SI IN THE PAST 2 DECADES. THE OVERALL PROCESS OF CHANGE THAT TOOK PLACE IN THE WORLD DURING THIS PERIOD -- THE TECHNOLOGICAL REVOLUTION, THE GROWING INTERDEPENDENCE AMONG NATIONS, EXPANSION OF COMMUNICATIONS, GLOBAL NUCLEAR AND MILITARY PROLIFERATION, THE EMERGENCE OF DEVELOPING COUNTRIES AS INTERNATIONAL COUNTERPARTS, THE WORSENING OF EXTREME POVERTY AND INTERNATIONAL INEQUALITIES, THE PROGRESS OF LIBERATION STRUGGLES IN THE THIRD WORLD, INTERNATIONAL AWARENESS OF THE VALUES OF DEMOCRACY AND HUMAN RIGHTS -- HAS ALSO EFFECTED MAJOR CHANGES IN THE IDEAS AND POSITIONS OF SOCIALIST PARTIES AROUND THE WORLD. IN THIS FRAMEWORK, THE SI HAS EXPANDED ITS OUTLOOK, HAS INCREASINGLY RENEWED ITS IDEAS AND, ABOVE ALL, HAS ACCEPTED PLURALISM WITHIN ITS FOLD AS WELL AS A BROAD INTERNAL DEBATE ABOUT THE BEST WAY TO PROMOTE THE CAUSE OF AN AUTONOMOUS, DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISM. IT SHOULD BE NOTED THAT THIS DEBATE ACQUIRED A DEMOCRATIC, ANTIFASCIST CONTENT AS A RESULT OF THE MAJOR ROLE PLAYED BY SOCIALIST FORCES THAT HAVE ENGAGED IN A LONG ANTIFASCIST STRUGGLE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>