<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0079"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0079"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="QUITO"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0079</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0079</p><p>QUITO, 18 DEC 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] ACCORDING TO A COMMUNIQUE GIVEN TO AFP, THE INTERNATIONAL REBEL ORGANIZATION, THE AMERICA BATTALION, WILL "CONTINUE ITS CONTINENTAL STRUGGLE FOR LIBERTY, JUSTICE, AND LATIN AMERICAN DIGNITY." IN ADDITION TO THE COMMUNIQUE, PHOTOGRAPHS OF REBELS IN MOUNTAIN AREAS WERE ALSO GIVEN TO AFP.</p><p>SIGNED BY THE AMERICAN BATTALION'S GENERAL COMMAND, THE COMMUNIQUE -- WRITTEN ON A SHEET WITHOUT THE ORGANIZATION'S LETTERHEAD -- STATES THAT THEY BACK THE DECISIONS MADE BY THE 19 APRIL MOVEMENT (M-19) OF COLOMBIA AND ALVARO LIVES, DAMMIT! OF ECUADOR TO SIGN PEACE AND DEMOCRACY AGREEMENTS WITH THEIR RESPECTIVE GOVERNMENTS.</p><p>THESE TWO ORGANIZATIONS, TOGETHER WITH THE TUPAC AMARU MOVEMENT OF PERU, FOUNDED THE AMERICAN BATTALION IN COLOMBIA 5 YEARS AGO. THE BATTALION SUFFERED HEAVY CASUALTIES IN COLOMBIA AND IT WAS BELIEVED TO HAVE DISAPPEARED. TODAY'S COMMUNIQUE, HOWEVER, ANNOUNCED THE EXISTENCE OF OTHER ORGANIZATIONS FORMING THE AMERICAN BATTALION.</p><p>THEY REQUEST THAT THE M-19 GIVE THEM THE SWORD OF LIBERATOR SIMON BOLIVAR AND RECALLED THEIR ORGANIZATION'S PRINCIPLES AND CAMILO TORRES' WORDS TO THE LIBERATOR: "GENERAL, AS LONG AS YOUR SWORD LIVES, THE FATHERLAND IS NOT DEAD."</p><p>THE REBELS ALSO STATE THAT THEY BACK SINCERE LATIN AMERICAN EFFORTS TO ATTAIN PEACE FOR THE REGION AND "FIND POLITICAL SOLUTIONS WITH THE LOWEST SOCIAL COST AND LOSS OF BLOOD FOR OUR PEOPLE."</p><p>THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION TOLD THE ANDEAN PRESIDENTS MEETING AT THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS THAT "TODAY THAT THEY HAVE THE POWER," THEY SHOULD "EXERT IT IN FAVOR OF THE PEOPLE, IN FAVOR OF A TRUE DEMOCRACY." HOWEVER, THEY CRITICIZED "THE MURDERS IN STREETS OF CARACAS," THE MURDERS IN THE JAILS OF PERU," AND "THE TORTURE IN THE JAILS OF ECUADOR."</p><p>WITH REGARD TO THE ANDEAN LEADERS, THE REBELS NOTED THAT "EITHER THEY ARE WITH LATIN AMERICA OR THEY ARE WITH THE NORTHERN TYRANTS," REFERRING TO THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>THE MOVEMENT STATES THAT THEY HAVE GATHERED ON REPRESSION AND STATES THAT 4,000 UNION MEMBERS HAVE BEEN ILLEGALLY ARRESTED AND THAT 200,000 HAVE "DISAPPEARED."</p><p>"THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ARE NOT ALONE," ADDS THE COMMUNIQUE AND STATES THAT AT THE REQUEST OF THE PEOPLE OR THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, WE ARE "WILLING TO MOVE OUR MEN AND DECLARE WAR ON THE FACISTS' FOREIGN ECONOMIC INTERESTS," INCLUDING "PRESIDENT (ALFREDO) CRISTIANI'S DIPLOMATIC REPRESENTATIVES" IN THE REGION.</p><p>CONCLUDING, THE COMMUNIQUE STATES: "IF LATIN AMERICANS HAVE TO GO WITH BOLIVAR'S SWORD TO SAN SALVADOR AND CENTRAL AMERICA, WE WILL DO SO."</p><p>THE DOCUMENT IS SIGNED BY THE COMMANDERS OF THE VICTORS' PACE REGIMENT [REGIMIENTO A PASO DE VENCEDORES], SAN MARTIN SOUTHERN FRONT [FRENTE SUR SAN MARTIN], B-5-R NOBODY SURRENDERS HERE [B-5-R AQUI NADIE SE RINDE], AND E.R.P. [REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLES ARMY] BRIGADES.</p></body></html>