<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0089"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0089"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0089</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0089</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY MODERATOR AND REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [CRISTIANI] THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT MAINTAINS ITS STANCE REGARDING THE DIALOGUE PROCESS AND ITS RESUMPTION. WE BELIEVE IT CONSTITUTES THE MOST EXPEDIENT WAY TO ACHIEVE PEACE IN THE COUNTRY, AND WE ARE GOING TO CONTINUE ALONG THAT PATH.</p><p>[MODERATOR] AIDA MONTALVO.</p><p>[MONTALVO] IN REGARD TO THE RENEGOTIATION OF THE FOREIGN DEBT, WHEN ARE YOU PLANNING TO GO TO MEXICO, AND HOW WILL THE SALVADORAN DEBT WITH THAT COUNTRY BE RENEGOTIATED?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] THE TIMETABLE FOR THE TRIP IS STILL UNDECIDED. THERE IS NOT DEFINITE DATE. I THINK IT MAY TAKE PLACE IN APRIL OR MAY OF THIS YEAR. OUR FIRST SCHEDULED VISIT WILL BE TO VENEZUELA.</p><p>[MODERATOR] CARLOS MARIO MARQUEZ OF AGENCE FRANCE PRESSE.</p><p>[MARQUEZ] [WORDS INDISTINCT] SOCIAL ASPECTS. I WOULD LIKE TO KNOW WHAT THE STATUS IS OF THAT, SINCE SOME SUPPORT HAVING PRIMARY MEETINGS AND THEN A SUMMIT, SO TO SPEAK?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] I DO NOT THINK THAT IS THE CAUSE OF THAT PROBLEM. WE SAID THAT THE RESUMPTION OF THE TALKS MUST TAKE PLACE WHEN THE FMLN ENTERS THE DIALOGUE PROCESS WITH A SERIOUS ATTITUDE. WE MAINTAIN OUR STANCE THAT THEY MUST STOP ALL VIOLENCE THAT IS DIRECTLY AND INDIRECTLY AFFECTING CIVILIANS, THAT IS, ALL THE TERRORIST ACTIVITIES THE FMLN CONDUCTS. THIS IS A SMALL REQUEST THAT OBTAINED THE SUPPORT OF ALL THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS AT THE SAN ISIDRO CORONADO MEETING IN COSTA RICA.</p><p>I THINK THAT THIS IS THE CAUSE OF THE PROBLEM. THEY HAVE ASKED FOR CHANGES IN FORMAT, AND WE SAID WE HAD NO PROBLEM WITH MOST OF THE REQUESTS WE HAVE RECEIVED. WE ARE NOW WAITING FOR THE FMLN, SINCE THEY ASKED FOR TIME TO ANALYZE THINGS A LITTLE BEFORE HAVING THE MEETING. WE ARE AWAITING THE VISIT OF MR. DE SOTO IN EARLY MARCH. OBVIOUSLY, THE DIALOGUE HAS NOT TAKEN PLACE BECAUSE THERE ARE SOME DIFFERENCES, [WORDS INDISTINCT]. I THINK THE CHIEF DIFFERENCE IS THAT THE FMLN DOES NOT WANT TO AGREE TO STOP TERRORIST ACTIONS, AND THAT IS WHY THERE IS NO DIALOGUE NOW.</p><p>[MODERATOR] EPIGMENIO IBARRA.</p><p>[IBARRA] MR. PRESIDENT, YESTERDAY IN NICARAGUA, DANIEL ORTEGA SAID AT A RALLY THAT HE WILL WAGE A CONSTRUCTIVE OPPOSITION. HE SAID THAT THE REVOLUTION DID NOT DIE WITH THE ELECTIONS. HE SAID THAT THE SANDINIST NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FSLN] WILL RULE FROM BELOW. WE SENSE A PRETTY COMPLEX CLIMATE FOR THE TRANSITION IN NICARAGUA. WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT DANIEL ORTEGA'S STATEMENTS? HOW DO YOU VIEW THE POSSIBILITY THAT THERE MAY BE A TRUE TRANSITION FROM POWER TO POWER INSTEAD OF A TRANSITION OF GOVERNMENT IN NICARAGUA?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] AS I HAVE SAID BEFORE, STATEMENTS BY ORTEGA AND OTHER REPRESENTATIVES OF THE SANDINIST FRONT ARE A SOURCE OF CONCERN. THEY COULD INDICATE THAT THE ELECTIONS MAY HAVE BEEN VERY FREE AND HONEST, BUT ALSO A FARCE AS FAR AS IMPROVING THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS IS CONCERNED. THE NICARAGUAN PEOPLE WOULD BE DENIED THE RIGHT TO FREELY PICK THEIR RULERS AND THE RIGHT OF THESE RULERS TO ACT AS THEY DEEM BEST. I WOULD SAY THAT THE NICARAGUAN REVOLUTION BELONGS NOT JUST TO THE FSLN. THE FSLN WAS ONE OF THE PARTICIPANTS IN THE REVOLUTION IN NICARAGUA AGAINST ANASTASIO SOMOZA. THE FACT IS THAT A CONSENSUS EXISTED AMONG ALL SECTORS THAT SUPPORTED THAT REVOLUTION. THE FSLN HAS NO MONOPOLY ON OR EXCLUSIVE CONTROL OVER THAT REVOLUTION.</p><p>I BELIEVE THAT IN IDEOLOGICAL TERMS THERE ARE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE VIEWS OF MS. CHAMORRO AND UNO [NATIONAL OPPOSITION UNION], THAT IS, THE NEW GOVERNMENT-ELECT, AND THE VIEWS OF THE FSLN. YET, THE PEOPLE PICKED THE GOVERNMENT. IT IS WORRISOME TO HEAR SOME STATEMENTS THAT THE FSLN WILL RULE FROM BELOW. WE BELIEVE THEY WOULD SEEK TO DO THAT BY KEEPING CONTROL OVER THE ARMY. LET ME REPEAT: THERE IS NOTHING DEMOCRATIC ABOUT A POLITICAL PARTY CONTROLLING THE ARMY. THE ARMY MUST RESPOND TO THE GOVERNMENT AND THE COUNTRY'S DEMOCRATIC PROCESS, AND NOT TO JUST ONE POLITICAL PARTY. WE BELIEVE THINGS HAVE NOT BEEN SETTLED YET. WE BELIEVE THAT THERE ARE STILL MANY THINGS LEFT PENDING. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>