<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0092"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0092"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="PANAMA CITY (PANAMA)"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0092</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0092</p><p>PANAMA CITY (PANAMA), 21 MAR 90 (CRITICA LIBRE) -- [ARTICLE] [JUSTINO GONZALEZ JR.] [TEXT] THE PANAMANIAN GOVERNMENT IS PREPARED TO FACE A RUPTURE OF DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH MEXICO AND PERU TO ENFORCE THE LAW, FOREIGN MINISTER DR. JULIO E. LINARES ASSERTED WHEN REFERRING TO FORMER COLLABORATORS OF FORMER GENERAL NORIEGA WHO SOUGHT SHELTER IN THESE EMBASSIES SEVERAL WEEKS AGO.</p><p>THE MEXICAN EMBASSY IN PANAMA CITY HAS ANNOUNCED THAT IT HAS GRANTED DIPLOMATIC ASYLUM TO RAFAEL AROSEMENA, FORMER MANAGER OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF PANAMA. HOWEVER, THE PANAMANIAN AUTHORITIES HAVE CONFIRMED THAT THEY WOULD NOT GRANT HIM A SAFECONDUCT TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY, AND THEY SENT A NOTE TO THE MEXICAN EMBASSY URGING IT TO DESIST FROM OFFERING HIM PROTECTION.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE, RAFAEL AROSEMENA IS INVOLVED IN AUTHORIZING THE PAYMENT OF CHECKS FOR $12 MILLION, MADE OUT TO CASH BY FORMER COLONEL MARCOS JUSTINES. MEANWHILE, HERACLIDES SUCRE AND GONZALO GONZALEZ, FORMER MAJORS IN THE NOW DEFUNCT DEFENSE FORCES, HAVE SOUGHT ASYLUM AT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY IN PANAMA CITY. THEY ARE ACCUSED OF KILLING MAJOR MOISES GIROLDI, WHO LED THE FOILED COUP D'ETAT AGAINST NORIEGA IN OCTOBER 1989.</p><p>"WE ARE WILLING TO PAY WHATEVER PRICE IS NECESSARY TO ENFORCE THE LAW, BECAUSE THESE POLITICAL REFUGEES ARE COMMON CRIMINALS AND THEY HAVE NO RIGHT TO THAT BENEFIT," LINARES STATED WHEN ASKED BY CRITICA LIBRE IF PANAMA WOULD BE WILLING TO STOP THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE SOUGHT ASYLUM AT THE MEXICAN AND PERUVIAN EMBASSIES FROM LEAVING THE COUNTRY WITHOUT FACING A TRIAL FOR THE CRIMES THEY REPORTEDLY PERPETRATED DURING THE PREVIOUS REGIME.</p><p>LINARES SAID THAT PANAMA WILL MAINTAIN ITS POSITION OF NOT GRANTING SAFE-CONDUCTS TO THESE REFUGEES, EVEN IF THE MEXICAN AND PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT INSIST ON GRANTING THEM DIPLOMATIC ASYLUM, AND ADMITTED THAT THIS WILL LIKELY CREATE AN INTERNATIONAL CONFLICT.</p><p>NEVERTHELESS, LINARES SAID THAT HE HOPES THERE WILL BE NO NEED TO BREAK DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH EITHER OF THESE COUNTRIES, WHICH INSIST ON KEEPING FORMER COLLABORATORS OF FORMER GEN NORIEGA AS REFUGEES, AND HE EMPHASIZED THE NEED TO REACH AN UNDERSTANDING WITH THESE NATIONS.</p><p>"WE HOPE THAT RELATIONS WITH MEXICO WILL NOT COOL OFF OR REACH A BREAKING POINT GIVEN THE AFFECTION THAT UNITES US AS FREE NATIONS," LINARES ADDED.</p><p>HE REVEALED THAT THE PERUVIAN EMBASSY SENT A NOTE TO THE PANAMANIAN GOVERNMENT STATING THAT IT WILL CONTINUE TO GIVE DIPLOMATI PROTECTION TO THE REFUGEES IN ITS EMBASSY, BECAUSE LEGAL PROCEEDINGS WERE STARTED AGAINST THEM AFTER THEY HAD BEEN ACCEPTED BY THE DIPLOMATIC MISSION.</p><p>"WE ARE PREPARING A NOTE OF REPLY TO THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT," FOREIGN MINISTER LINARES SAID.</p><p>THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ARE STILL REFUGEES AT THE ECUADORAN EMBASSY: FORMER PUBLIC WORKS MINISTER RENE BULTRON, FORMER LABOR MINISTER CESAR MARTANS, FORMER NATIONAL MORTGAGE BANK MANAGER JULIO SHAIK, FORMER IRHE [INSTITUTE OF HYDRAULIC RESOURCES AND ELECTRIFICATION] DIRECTOR LEOVIGILDO HERRRERA, AND FORMER TOURISM DIRECTOR BERNARDO DOMINGUEZ.</p><p>LAST WEEK THE FOREIGN MINISTER REVIEWED THE POSSIBILITY OF GRANTING SAFE-CONDUCTS TO FIVE OF THESE FORMER OFFICIALS IN THE PREVIOUS REGIME, PROVIDED THERE IS NO CASE PENDING AGAINST THEM. ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL, THESE REFUGEES FACE CHARGES FOR PLOTTING AGAINST THE STATE'S SECURITY, A POLITICAL CRIME.</p><p>REFERRING TO THE CASE OF FORMER LEGISLATOR LUIS GOMEZ, WHO SOUGHT ASYLUM AT THE CUBAN EMBASSY, LINARES SAID THEY WILL HAVE TO MAKE AN EVALUATION.</p></body></html>