<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0037"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0037"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MEDELLIN"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0037</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0037</p><p>MEDELLIN, 4 SEP 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] TWO PERSONS WERE INJURED IN DYNAMITE ATTACKS PERPETRATED THIS EVENING AGAINST TWO BANK BRANCHES IN THIS NORTHWESTERN COLOMBIAN CITY.</p><p>THE FIRST POLICE REPORTS INDICATE THAT A BOMB EXPLODED IN FRONT OF THE STATE-OWNED AGRARIAN BOARD IN THE SUBURBS OF MANRIQUE, AND ANOTHER AT THE AGRARIAN BOARD BRANCH IN THE SECTOR OF ARANJUEZ.</p><p>ONE PERSON WAS SERIOUSLY WOUNDED IN EACH OF THE TERRORIST ATTACKS, BUT NO DEATHS WERE REPORTED.</p><p>THE DEVICE WHICH EXPLODED IN MANRIQUE DESTROYED THE BANK BUILDING AND A BUS THAT WAS PARKED IN FRONT OF THE BUILDING, AND CAUSED CONSIDERABLE DAMAGE IN SEVERAL STORES NEARBY.</p><p>THE EXPLOSION IN THE OTHER BRANCH WAS OF A LESSER MAGNITUDE, AND IT BROKE WINDOWS AND CAUSED DAMAGE INSIDE THE OFFICES.</p><p>THE SCANT POLICE INFORMATION SAID THAT THE DEVICES WERE APPARENTLY LEFT IN FRONT OF THE TWO BANK BRANCHES MINUTES BEFORE THE CURFEW BEGAN FOR THE 6TH CONSECUTIVE DAY--PRECISELY TO COUNTER THE WAVE OF TERRORISM CAUSED BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS.</p><p>THESE REPRESENT THE SECOND AND THIRD DYNAMITE ATTACKS IN MEDELLIN THIS EVENING. THE PREVIOUS ONE TOOK PLACE 2 HOURS EARLIER AND BLEW UP A POLICE POST, BUT FAILED TO INJURE ITS FIVE OCCUPANTS.</p></body></html>