<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0018"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0018"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0018</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0018</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 25 MAY 89 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] GUERRILLAS ATTACKED THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE GARRISON AND THE NATIONAL POLICE STATION IN SAN SALVADOR'S SACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD TONIGHT.</p><p>ACCORDING TO PRELIMINARY REPORTS, AT LEAST SIX FMLN GUERRILLAS WERE KILLED DURING THE ATTACK. THREE POLICEMEN, A SOLDIER OF THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE, AND FOUR CIVILIANS WERE WOUNDED AND TAKEN BY THE RED CROSS TO THE LOCAL HOSPITAL.</p><p>URBAN GUERRILLAS BEGAN THE ATTACK AT 1805. THEY STRUCK BOTH THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE AND THE NATIONAL POLICE STATION IN THE SACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [UNIDENTIFIED MILITARY OFFICER] THE GUERRILLAS USED 60-MM MORTARS AND RPG-18 ROCKET LAUNCHERS. THE TERRORISTS TRAVELED IN CARS. THEY DESTROYED SEVERAL POWER POLES ON 29TH STREET AND MACHINEGUNNED SEVERAL TRANSFORMERS. THE ATTACK CAME MAINLY FROM THE SOUTH, WHERE THE COHACHE ORGANIZATION IS LOCATED, AND FROM THE HONDUA CHURCH HERE. THEY ALSO ATTACKED FROM THE NORTHEAST, BUT MOST OF THE ATTACKERS CAME FROM THE DIRECTION OF THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY, FIRING FROM THERE AT SOME [WORD INDISTINCT] WE HAVE IN THE AREA. WE HAD REMOVED THE CORDON AROUND THE UNIVERSITY 4 OR 5 DAYS AGO, AND [WORDS INDISTINCT] FIRED FROM THERE.</p><p>THE WOUNDED INCLUDE AT LEAST THREE CIVILIANS, ONE OF WHOM IS IN SERIOUS CONDITION AND HAS ALREADY BEEN TAKEN BY OUR TROOPS TO THE MILITARY HOSPITAL; PERHAPS FIVE TRAFFIC POLICEMEN, ALTHOUGH THIS HAS NOT BEEN CONFIRMED; AND A SOLDIER OF THE BELLOSO BATTALION.</p><p>NO DAMAGE WAS CAUSED HERE AT THE GARRISON. ONLY A FEW SHELLS HIT THE GARRISON, AND THESE WERE 60-MM MORTAR SHELLS, WHICH ARE NOT POWERFUL ENOUGH TO CAUSE DAMAGE. WE FOUND SIX [WORDS INDISTINCT]. AS FOR THE RPG'S, WE FOUND ONLY ONE [WORDS INDISTINCT] BEHIND THE ANTEL [NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS] OFFICE [WORDS INDISTINCT]. WE FOUND SIX HOLES FROM M-79 SHELLS, BUT THEY DID NOT CAUSE GREAT DAMAGE.</p><p>ONE OF OUR CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES CAME OUT SLIGHTLY WOUNDED FROM THE [WORD INDISTINCT].</p><p>[REPORTER] COLONEL, OUR COUNTRY WILL HAVE A NEW PRESIDENT IN A FEW DAYS. THE FMLN HAS CALLED A NEW TRANSPORTATION STOPPAGE BEGINNING ON 31 MAY AND HAS NOW ATTACKED THE 1ST BRIGADE. BASED ON THIS EVIDENCE, DO YOU FEEL THE FMLN WILL INTENSIFY ITS MILITARY ACTIONS IN SAN SALVADOR?</p><p>[MILITARY OFFICER] OF COURSE, WE ARE EXPECTING THIS. CHANNEL 12 HAS ALREADY REPORTED THAT A TRANSPORTATION STOPPAGE WILL BEGIN ON 31 MAY. THEREFORE, WE BELIEVE VIGILANCE MUST BE INCREASED. WE EXPECTED THIS KIND OF ATTACK. WE HAVE ALWAYS SAID WE ARE PREPARED TO REPEL ANY TERRORIST ATTACK, AND THIS WAS A TYPICAL TERRORIST ATTACK. FROM A MILITARY STANDPOINT, I DO NOT THINK THE ATTACK WAS VERY EFFECTIVE. THE GUERRILLAS USED MORTARS BUT MOSTLY HURT CIVILIANS. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>