<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0036"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0036"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0036</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0036</p><p>BOGOTA, 4 SEP 89 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] THIS STATION HAS LEARNED THAT THREE PERSONS HAVE BEEN KILLED AT THE JOSE MARIA CORDOBA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, IN THE TOWN OF RIO NEGRO, ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT. ONE OF THE PERSONS KILLED WAS WEARING A MILITARY UNIFORM, BUT WE STILL DO NOT KNOW IF HE WAS IN DISGUISE OR IF HE BELONGED TO THE SECURITY CORPS. ACCORDING TO PRELIMINARY REPORTS FROM THE ANTIOQUIA POLICE, THIS WAS AN ATTACK ON THE INSTALLATIONS OF THE JOSE MARIA CORDOBA AIRPORT. I REPEAT: THIS IS A PRELIMINARY REPORT BY THE ANTIOQUIA POLICE. RIGHT NOW, TOP OFFICIALS AND ANTIOQUIA POLICE CHIEFS ARE ON THEIR WAY TO THE AIRPORT. THE AIRPORT HAS BEEN SEALED OFF, AND PEOPLE ARE TRAPPED INSIDE OFFICES THERE. NO ONE IS ALLOWED NEAR THE SCENE OF THE VIOLENT SHOOTING THAT TOOK PLACE THERE JUST A FEW MINUTES AGO.</p><p>A SEARCH IS UNDER WAY THROUGHOUT RIO NEGRO'S SAN NICOLAS VALLEY, WHERE THE AIRPORT IS LOCATED, FOR THE PERPETRATORS OF THIS ATTACK, WHO ARE NOW BELIEVED TO BE DRIVING TWO YELLOW RENAULTS AND ARE BEING PURSUED BY THE POLICE. I REPEAT: SO FAR, WE KNOW THAT THREE PERSONS HAVE BEEN KILLED INSIDE THE AIRPORT. ONE OF THOSE KILLED WAS WEARING A MILITARY UNIFORM. THE ANTIOQUIA POLICE HAVE REPORTED THAT THIS WAS AN ATTACK ON THE AIRPORT INSTALLATIONS.</p><p>WE STILL HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO LEARN IF THE ATTACK WAS TARGETED AGAINST ANYONE IN PARTICULAR.</p></body></html>