<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0075"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0075"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0075</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0075</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (RADIO CADENA CUSCATLAN) -- [TEXT] [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY UNIDENTIFIED MODERATOR AND REPORTERS] [CONTINUED] [MODERATOR] MARCO ANTONIO GUEVARA, OF THE "UP TO DATE" NEWSCAST.</p><p>[GUEVARA] HOW DO THE FIVE PRESIDENTS CONCEIVE THE DEMOBILIZATION OF THE FMLN? HOW DOES THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT CONCEIVE THIS HAPPENING?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] I BELIEVE THERE HAVE BEEN SUBSTANTIAL CHANGES IN THIS PRESIDENTIAL MEETING AS COMPARED TO PREVIOUS MEETINGS. TO EXPLAIN THIS BETTER, MARCO ANTONIO, WE MUST SAY WE WILL NOT FALL INTO WHAT HAS BEEN USED IN THE PAST, THAT IS, THE FAMOUS SYMMETRY. ON THIS OCCASION, WE HAVE BEEN VERY CLEAR AND CATEGORICAL WHEN WE SAID THAT WE WERE NOT WILLING TO CONTINUE CONTRIBUTING SACRIFICES AND OTHER THINGS FROM THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT IN ORDER TO SOLVE THE NICARAGUAN PROBLEM EXCLUSIVELY. WE DEMANDED UNIFORMITY, AND ANY OTHER COUNTRY CONFRONTING THE AGGRESSION OF AN IRREGULAR FORCE -- ANY OTHER COUNTRY IN CENTRAL AMERICA -- ALSO HAS THE RIGHT TO BE TREATED IN A UNIFORM MANNER, AS FAR AS MEASURES AND CRITERIA THAT MAY BE ADOPTED IN THE PRESIDENTIAL MEETINGS.</p><p>THAT IS WHY TODAY FOR THE FIRST TIME YOU ARE SEEING HOW THE MEASURES ADOPTED FOR THE NICARAGUAN RESISTANCE -- THAT HAD BEEN GRANTED MOST OF THE ATTENTION UP TO NOW -- ARE ALSO BEING ADOPTED FOR THE FMLN.</p><p>WE CANNOT ALLOW A COUNTRY TO CLAIM IT IS THE ONLY TARGET OF AN AGGRESSION BY AN IRREGULAR ARMED FORCE SUPPORTED FROM ABROAD. HERE IN EL SALVADOR WE NOW HAVE GREATER EVIDENCE FOLLOWING THIS 11 NOVEMBER TERRORIST AGGRESSION THAT THE FMLN IS A MOVEMENT THAT CAN SURVIVE ONLY WITH SUPPORT FROM ABROAD, AND THAT IT OBEYS AND EXISTS BECAUSE OF INTERNATIONAL MOVEMENTS.</p><p>IN THE SECOND PLACE, IT HAS DEMONSTRATED THAT IT ONLY HAS THE CAPACITY TO GENERATE TERRORISM, WHICH HAS BEEN MENTIONED IN THIS DOCUMENT. WE CANNOT CONTINUE JUST TALKING ABOUT DEMOBILIZATION AND PACIFICATION IN NICARAGUA. IT IS TIME TO APPLY THIS TO ALL IRREGULAR GROUPS, BE IT THE URNG [GUATEMALAN NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY UNITY] IN GUATEMALA, OR ANY OTHER IRREGULAR ARMED GROUP THAT MAY COME UP AND MAY TRY TO HINDER THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS IN THE AREA.</p><p>WE SEE THIS AS SOMETHING THAT HAS GONE DEEP INTO THE MINDS OF ALL THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS, AND FROM NOW ON, WE WILL HAVE GREATER UNIFORMITY IN TREATING ALL OF THOSE IRREGULAR GROUPS THAT OPERATE IN THE REGION.</p><p>[MODERATOR] RENE HURTADO OF EL MUNDO.</p><p>[HURTADO] MR PRESIDENT, FOLLOWING THE TELA AND COSTA DEL SOL MEETINGS, NICARAGUA HAS CHANGED ITS STAND. IN COSTA RICA, PRESIDENT ORTEGA WAS ASKED IF HE HAD SOLD OUT THE FMLN IN EXCHANGE FOR THE DEMOBILIZATION OF THE CONTRAS AND OTHER RESULTS OF THE SUMMIT IN FAVOR OF NICARAGUA. I WOULD LIKE TO KNOW YOUR OPINION ABOUT THIS, AND ALSO HOW YOU INTERPRET THE FACT THAT PRESIDENT ORTEGA HAS ACCEPTED SOME ISSUES ABOUT THE FMLN THAT HE DID NOT ALLOW IN TELA OR COSTA DEL SOL? ON THE OTHER HAND, WILL THE DEMOBILIZATION OF THE FMLN BE THE RESULT OF A DIALOGUE OR NEGOTIATIONS LATER ON?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] IN THE FIRST PLACE, I BELIEVE THAT DANIEL ORTEGA WAS UNABLE TO PULL ANY MORE TRICKS OUT OF HIS HAT, AND HE WAS FACING A FACT HE COULD NO LONGER HIDE: HE IS THE ONE WHO IS SPREADING ARMED REVOLUTIONS IN CENTRAL AMERICA AND TRYING TO HAMPER DEMOCRATIC PROCESSES IN THE REGION. ONCE MORE HE HAS BEEN CAUGHT NOT HONORING THE COMMITMENTS AGREED ON IN TELA, BUT RATHER VIOLATING THESE COMMITMENTS. ON THIS OCCASION HE HAS BEEN LEFT WITH NO POSSIBLE DEFENSE.</p><p>THEREFORE, IN OUR OPINION, HE HAS NO OPTION OTHER THAN TO ACCEPT THE REALITY OF WHAT IS HAPPENING IN CENTRAL AMERICA, OR SEE HIMSELF TOTALLY ISOLATED AMID A PEACE PLAN THAT HAS INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT. THIS SITUATION WOULD CAUSE HIM MANY PROBLEMS AND HEADACHES IN POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC MATTERS.</p></body></html>