<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST3-MUC4-0070"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST3-MUC4-0070"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST3-MUC4-0070</title></head><body><p>TST3-MUC4-0070</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 26 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI, IN PROGRESS] [TEXT] ...THAT THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] LAUNCHED AGAINST THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ON 11 NOVEMBER. THE FMLN LAUNCHED THIS AGGRESSION WITH ALL OF ITS FORCES, CHIEFLY USING A CONCENTRATION OF WEAPONS AND FIGHTERS IN THE SAN SALVADOR METROPOLITAN ZONE, IN ZACATECOLUCA, LA PAZ DEPARTMENT, AND AT TIMES IN USULUTAN CITY, USULUTAN DEPARMENT, AND IN SAN MIGUEL CITY, SAN MIGUEL DEPARTMENT. IN THIS AGGRESSION THE FMLN DISPLAYED ITS WEAPONRY. IT DISPLAYED AN INCREDIBLE AMOUNT OF WEAPONS, WHICH....[CHANGES THOUGHT] BY THE WAY, IN RECENT DAYS THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES HAVE BEGUN A NUMBER OF SEARCHES IN SOME HOUSES WHERE IT IS BELIEVED THAT SOME OF THESE WEAPONS WERE LOCATED. WE HAVE ALREADY FOUND LARGE AMOUNTS OF WEAPONS.</p><p>IN ADDITION, THE FMLN LAUNCHED AN AGGRESSION AND HID BEHIND YOU, SALVADORAN PEOPLE. IT USED YOU AS A SHIELD, WANTING TO CONVEY THE IDEA THAT THEY HAVE THE SUPPORT OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND THAT THE PEOPLE HERE WOULD RISE UP TO SUPPORT THEM. THEY HAVE REALIZED THAT THIS VIEW IS TOTALLY FALSE. FAR FROM SUPPORTING THE FMLN, THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, SALVADORAN BROTHERS, SUPPORTED THE ARMED FORCES IN THE TREMENDOUS EFFORT IT HAS CONDUCTED TO REPEL THE FMLN AGGRESSION.</p><p>HOWEVER, WE MUST NOW CONSIDER A VERY IMPORTANT MATTER. IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO CARRY OUT AN AGGRESSION OF THIS SIZE WITHOUT SUPPORT FROM SOMEONE ABROAD. ON THIS OCCASION, WE ARE CERTAIN THAT THIS SUPPORT CAME FROM NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT ORTEGA AND CUBAN PRESIDENT CASTRO, BUT CHIEFLY FROM ORTEGA WHO IS TRYING TO RAISE A SMOKESCREEN IN THE FACE OF THE REAL POSSIBILITY THAT MRS VIOLETTA CHAMORRO MAY DEFEAT HIM IN THE ELECTIONS, AND BECAUSE THE FMLN HAS ALWAYS BEEN THE PUPPET OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNIST AGGRESSION IN WHICH ORTEGA AND CASTRO PARTICIPATE. IF THIS IS NOT SO, LET US TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT HAS HAPPENED. DURING THOSE TIMES WHEN YOU WERE SUFFERING MOMENTS OF ANGUISH LAST WEEK, YOU WERE ABLE TO SEE THE LARGE NUMBER OF FOREIGNERS WHO WERE SUPPORTING THE FMLN TERRORISTS. WE HAVE ALSO MANAGED TO COLLECT EVIDENCE THAT THE ORTEGA GOVERNMENT TRAINED FMLN FIGHTERS IN THE USE OF CERTAIN KINDS OF WEAPONRY, SPECIFICALLY THE GRENADE LAUNCHERS.</p><p>WHAT HAPPENED? IN THE PAST FEW WEEKS WE BEGAN NOTICING WHAT KIND OF WEAPONS WERE BEING USED. IN THE FOILED ATTACK ON THE PRESIDENTIAL HOUSE, A SUBSEQUENT ATTACK ON THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES' JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF, AND LASTLY, AN ATTACK ON THE NATIONAL GUARD GARRISON PARTICULAR KINDS OF WEAPONS WERE BEING USED. AS A RESULT OF THE SAVAGE ACTION BY FMLN, TWO LITTLE GIRLS WERE KILLED. MOREOVER, LET US RECALL AND SEE THE CONNECTION THAT EXISTS WITH ALL THE SHIPMENTS THAT THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES HAVE BEEN STOPPING BETWEEN NICARAGUAN AND EL SALVADOR. ONE SHIPMENT WAS MADE PRIOR TO THE VISIT WE PRESIDENTS MADE TO COSTA RICA. IN THAT COUNTRY, WE DENOUNCED ORTEGA FOR CONTINUING TO SEND WEAPONS AND SUPPORTING THE FMLN IN AN OPEN VIOLATION OF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PEACE PROCESS.</p><p>AND WHAT HAS HAPPENED LATELY? ON 25 NOVEMBER, SALVADORAN PEOPLE, TWO LIGHT AIRPLANES COMING FROM NICARAGUA WERE DISCOVERED. THEIR FLIGHT COURSE INDICATES THAT THEY CAME FROM NICARAGUA, ESPECIALLY THE ONE WHERE THE WEAPONS WERE FOUND. AS ADDITIONAL PROOF, WE HAVE A DOCUMENT SHOWING THAT ONE LIGHT AIRCRAFT BELONGS TO THE SETA TRANSPORTATION COMPANY LOCATED IN NICARAGUA'S AUGUSTO CESAR SANDINO AIRPORT. IT WAS BRINGING SOPHISTICATED EQUIPMENT FOR THE FMLN. IN THAT AIRCRAFT ACCIDENT, FOUR PEOPLE WERE KILLED: THE PILOT WHO WAS WEARING CIVILIAN CLOTHES AND THREE OTHER PEOPLE WERE WEARING MILITARY UNIFORMS; I MEAN CAMOUFLAGE UNIFORMS LIKE THE ONES WORN IN MANY COUNTRIES, AND LIKE THE ONES THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCE USE. IT IS BELIEVED THAT TWO OF THOSE PEOPLE DIED AS A RESULT OF THE ACCIDENT. WE ALSO BELIEVE THAT ANOTHER PERSON KILLED HIMSELF BECAUSE HE HAD A WEAPON IN HIS HAND AND A BULLET WOUND IN FOREHEAD. HE KILLED HIMSELF BECAUSE HE SAW HIMSELF IMPLICATED IN THIS SITUATION. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>