<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0043"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0043"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0043</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0043</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, NO DATE (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN)] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE FMLN WILL MAINTAIN THESE UNILATERAL ACTIONS DURING A SUFFICIENT AND MODERATE PERIOD OF TIME TO ALLOW THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES TO CARRY OUT THE CORRESPONDING ACTIONS THAT WILL CONTRIBUTE TO CREATING A SERIOUS CLIMATE FOR NEGOTIATIONS. IN THIS SENSE, WE DEMAND THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES TO:</p><p>1. IMMEDIATELY CEASE REPRESSION, STOP ASSASSINATIONS, ARRESTS, USE OF TORTURE ON POLITICAL PRISONERS, SECURITY CORPS ACTIONS AGAINST DEMONSTRATIONS, STRIKES, AND OTHER PEOPLE'S ACTIVITIES. WE ALSO DEMAND THE LIFTING OF THE SIEGE AGAINST THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY, LABOR UNION OFFICES, AND OFFICES OF OTHER PEOPLE'S ORGANIZATIONS, AND AN END TO SEARCHES AGAINST THESE ORGANIZATIONS.</p><p>2. PERMIT THE IMMEDIATE REPATRIATION OF ALL REFUGEES, WITH NO RESTRICTIONS, TO THE PLACES THEY SELECT. TO LIFT THE SIEGE AND RESTRICTIONS ON THE MOVEMENT OF PEOPLE AT THE ALREADY ESTABLISHED RESETTLEMENTS, AND ON THE CONFLICT AREAS WHERE THE ARMY PREVENTS THE ARRIVAL OF SUPPLIES.</p><p>3. CEASE THE ATTACKS ON THE FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION IN THE FORM OF ASSASSINATIONS, INTIMIDATION, AND DISMISSAL OF NEWSMEN, AND PRESSURE ON THE MEDIA IN GENERAL.</p><p>4. SUSPEND CONSCRIPTION, WHICH IS CARRIED OUT ONLY AMONG THE LOW INCOME SECTORS OF THE POPULATION.</p><p>5. STOP USING LAND MINES AND BOOBY TRAPS, WHICH HAVE CAUSED HUNDREDS OF CASUALTIES ATTRIBUTED TO THE FMLN. STOP BOMBING CIVILIAN TARGETS AND INHABITED AREAS.</p><p>THE FMLN, IN TURN, AGREES TO STOP ACTIONS THAT DIRECTLY AFFECT THE GOVERNMENT'S WAR ECONOMY AND IMBALANCE THE ARMY'S DEFENSIVE SYSTEM. THE FMLN AGREES TO STOP USING SUCH WEAPONS AS THE MINES THAT HAVE INFLICTED THOUSANDS OF CASUALTIES ON THE ARMY. SOME OF THESE ACTIONS HAVE AFFECTED THE POPULATION, EITHER DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY. WE DEMAND THAT THE GOVERNMENT STOP USING REPRESSIVE MEASURES THAT DIRECTLY AFFECT THE POPULATION AND THEIR DEMOCRATIC RIGHTS. WE WILL NOT, HOWEVER, ACCEPT AS A GOVERNMENT GOODWILL GESTURE OUR WAR DISABLED LEAVING THE COUNTRY FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT, IF AND WHEN THIS DEPARTURE TAKES PLACE. WE REGARD THIS AS A BASIC HUMANITARIAN RIGHT SUBJECT TO INTERNATIONAL ACCORDS, SUCH AS THE GENEVA CONVENTION, SIGNED AND RATIFIED BY THE SALVADORAN STATE. THE FULFILLMENT OF THESE ACCORDS HAS BEEN DEMANDED FROM THE GOVERNMENT BY VARIOUS ORGANIZATIONS AND THE LATEST UN HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION RESOLUTION.</p><p>AS OF TODAY, WE WILL BE WATCHING THE ACTIONS OF THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES ON THE FIVE POINTS PROPOSED. WE INVITE THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES TO DEMONSTRATE TRUE WILLINGNESS FOR PEACE BY TAKING THE ACTIONS WE HAVE PROPOSED AND INITIATING A SERIOUS NEGOTIATING PROCESS TO END THE WAR.</p><p>FMLN GENERAL COMMAND.</p><p>EL SALVADOR, 7 SEPTEMBER 1989.</p></body></html>