<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0080"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0080"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0080</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0080</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 11 NOV 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION PLEASE, LISTENERS OF YSKL. WE CONTINUE REPORTING ON THE RECENT INCIDENTS IN THE CAPITAL. ACCORDING TO REPORTS WE HAVE RECEIVED, THE PRESIDENCIAL RESIDENCE LOCATED IN THE ESCALON NEIGHBORHOOD WAS TARGET OF AN ATTACK TONIGHT.</p><p>WE HAVE ALSO LEARNED THAT TWO VEHICLES OF THE SALVADORAN RED CROSS HAVE ALSO BEEN ATTACKED. ONE OF THEM WAS TOTALLY DESTROYED BY FIRE IN THE MEJICANOS SECTOR, AND AN AMBULANCE WAS ATTACKED NEAR THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY.</p><p>WE HAVE ALSO RECEIVED REPORTS FROM THE NORTHERN NATIONAL GUARD SECTOR IN THE SAN JOAQUIN NEIGHBORHOOD AND SURROUNDING AREAS, FROM WHERE THE ATTACKS AGAINST THE NATIONAL GUARD HEADQUARTERS ARE BEING LAUNCHED. HERE IS FRANCISCO BENITEZ WITH AN IMPORTANT LAST MINUTE REPORT. GO AHEAD, FRANCISCO:</p><p>[BEGIN RELAY] GOOD EVENING YSKL LISTENERS. WE HAVE CONFIRMED THAT CLASHES CONTINUE AT THIS TIME OF THE NIGHT NEAR THE UNIVERSITY OF EL SALVADOR BETWEEN URBAN COMMANDOES OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN) AND MEMBERS OF THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE WHO ARE IN AREA SURROUNDING THE UNIVERSITY OF EL SALVADOR, SPECIFICALLY IN FRONT OF THE INSTITUTE OF URBAN HOUSING, IVU, OFFICES.</p><p>THIS IS A DARK SECTOR. ALL CIVILIANS, PEDESTRIANS, AND DRIVERS ARE ASKED TO AVOID THIS SECTOR BECAUSE HEAVY SHOOTING CONTINUES IN THE AREA BETWEEN REBELS AND MEMBERS OF THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE. WE HAVE CONFIRMED THAT THERE IS A HEAVY EXCHANGE OF FIRE IN THIS SECTOR. WE HAVE BEEN TOLD THAT PEDESTRIANS AND DRIVERS SHOULD BE WARNED TO AVOID THIS AREA, AS THERE IS HEAVY SHOOTING NEAR THE UNIVERSITY OF EL SALVADOR. WE HAVE CONFIRMED THIS. WE CAN HEAR SHOOTING EVERYWHERE IN THIS SECTOR, PARTICULARLY IN FRONT OF THE IVU OFFICES.</p><p>MEMBERS OF THE CIVIL DEFENSE IN MEJICANOS HAVE JUST CONFIRMED THAT THEY ARE ALSO FIGHTING IN MEJICANOS AT THIS TIME OF THE NIGHT.</p><p>STAY TUNED, AS WE WILL CONTINUE REPORTING.</p></body></html>