<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0019"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0019"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0019</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0019</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 26 JUN 89 (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [INTERVIEW WITH SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY MILTON GRIMALDI] [TEXT] PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI SAID TODAY THAT DESPITE THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT'S [FMLN] TERRORIST ATTACKS AGAINST SALVADORANS, HIS GOVERNMENT IS WILLING TO HOLD TALKS WITH THE REBELS. HE SAID THAT HIS ADMINISTRATION IS CONTINUING ITS EFFORTS TO FORM A COMMISSION FOR A DIALOGUE WITH THE REBELS AND THAT HE IS NOW AWAITING WORD FROM TWO PEOPLE WHOM HE HAS CHOSEN TO SERVE ON THE COMMISSION. THE CATHOLIC CHURCH WILL NOT BE REPRESENTED ON THE COMMISSION BECAUSE THE COMMISSION IS COMPLETELY POLITICAL IN NATURE. PRESIDENT CRISTIANI CONDEMNED THE MURDER OF NATIONAL FIRE DEPARTMENT DIRECTOR COLONEL ROBERTO ARMANDO RIVERA ESCOBAR, WHO WAS KILLED IN A MACHINEGUN ATTACK THIS MORNING. PRESIDENT CRISTIANI ATTRIBUTED RIVERA'S MURDER TO THE FMLN:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CRISTIANI] IT IS CLEAR THAT THE FMLN DOES NOT WANT PEACE BUT INSTEAD WANTS TO CONTINUE THE VIOLENCE. THE FMLN COMMITTED THIS CRIME. I BELIEVE THAT A TREACHEROUS CRIME SUCH AS THIS ONE CANNOT BE CALLED ANYTHING BUT A COWARDLY ACT. WE WILL, OF COURSE, INVESTIGATE THE CRIME. I REPEAT, HOWEVER, THAT ALL THE EVIDENCE WE HAVE GATHERED ON THE FMLN'S PLANS INDICATE THAT IT WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS ACTION.</p><p>[REPORTER] [WORDS INDISTINCT] WHAT ARE YOU DOING TO PREPARE THE COMMISSION THAT IS TO HOLD TALKS [WORDS INDISTINCT]?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] THE TERRORISTS WILL NOT OF COURSE BE SUCCESSFUL WITH ACTIONS OF THIS KIND AND WILL NOT PROVOKE US INTO VIOLENT ACTION. THEY SHOULD UNDERSTAND BY NOW THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS SEARCHING FOR PEACE AND WANTS TO ACHIEVE PEACE WITHIN EL SALVADOR'S LEGAL FRAMEWORK AND BY APPLYING THE LAW. THE FMLN REBELS SHOULD UNDERSTAND THAT THEIR TERRORIST ACTIONS WILL NOT LEAD US TO TAKE RASH ACTIONS; IT IS USELESS FOR THEM TO CONTINUE TO ACT IN THIS WAY.</p><p>WE ARE CONTINUING OUR WORK ON SETTING UP THE COMMISSION. TODAY WE WILL SPEAK WITH TWO PEOPLE WHO HAVE STILL NOT TOLD US IF THEY WILL ACCEPT MY INVITATION TO BE COMMISSION MEMBERS. THE NAMES OF THE COMMISSION MEMBERS WILL BE RELEASED TO THE PUBLIC ONCE THE COMMISSION IS FULLY FORMED.</p><p>[REPORTER] [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE CATHOLIC CHURCH'S ROLE IN THIS COMMISSION?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE CATHOLIC CHURCH WILL NOT BE REPRESENTED IN THIS COMMISSION BECAUSE IT IS A POLITICAL COMMISSION AND NOT ONE IN WHICH THE CHURCH CAN EFFECTIVELY PARTICIPATE. THE CHURCH HAS ALWAYS WORKED FOR PEACE AND HAS MADE ALL POSSIBLE EFFORTS TO FIND PEACE FOR THE COUNTRY THE CHURCH WILL CONTINUE TO WORK TOWARD THIS GOAL. HOWEVER, I BELIEVE THAT THE CHURCH HAS A DIFFERENT ROLE TO PLAY IN THE SEARCH FOR PEACE, AND THAT ROLE IS NOT SERVING ON THE POLITICAL COMMISSION.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT WOULD YOU SAY IS THE BIGGEST OBSTACLE YOU HAVE ENCOUNTERED IN THE MONTH THAT YOU HAVE SERVED AS PRESIDENT?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] I BELIEVE THAT THE BIGGEST OBSTACLE HAS BEEN OUR INABILITY TO LAUNCH OUR GOVERNMENT PROGRAM, WHICH IS DUE TO THE STATE OF AFFAIRS EXISTING IN THE FORMER ADMINISTRATION WHEN WE TOOK OVER. WE HAVE REPEATEDLY OBSERVED THIS STATE OF AFFAIRS IN THE MAJORITY OF GOVERNMENT [WORD INDISTINCT]. THROUGHOUT GOVERNMENT OFFICES, DISORDER WAS RAMPANT, AND, IN MANY CASES, WE HAVE OBSERVED THAT GOVERNMENT OFFICES WERE MANAGED IRRESPONSIBLY. MOREOVER, THE NATION'S PUBLIC FINANCES HAVE GREATLY DETERIORATED. WE HAVE INHERITED A COUNTRY IN VERY BAD FINANCIAL SHAPE, AND, I BELIEVE, THIS HAS DELAYED THE LAUNCHING OF OUR GOVERNMENT PROGRAM. [END RECORDING]</p><p>CRISTIANI, REFERRING TO COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT OSCAR ARIAS' OFFER TO HOLD A DIALOGUE WITH THE REBELS IN COSTA RICAN TERRITORY, SAID THAT THE OFFER WAS A GREAT CONTRIBUTION TOWARD CONVINCING THE FMLN TO STOP MURDERING DEFENSELESS CITIZENS.</p></body></html>