<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0010"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0010"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0010</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0010</p><p>NO CITY, NO DATE -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH PERUVIAN PRESIDENT GARCIA BY AMAT AND AN UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [AMAT] MR. PRESIDENT, WHEN ONE SEES PERU FACING THE DIFFICULTIES IT IS EXPERIENCING NOW, THE SAME AS OUR OWN COUNTRY AND LATIN AMERICA IN GENERAL, ONE ASKS HIMSELF: WOULD A MAN, A NOVELIST LIKE MARIO VARGAS LLOSA, BE THE RIGHT MAN TO LEAD PERU?</p><p>[GARCIA] AS PRESIDENT OF ALL PERUVIANS -- AND OF VARGAS LLOSA TO EVEN IF HE DOES NOT LIKE IT -- I CANNOT PASS JUDGMENT, EITHER ETHICALLY OR INTELLECTUALLY, ON A POLITICIAN AND PERUVIAN WHO IS CONTENDING FOR THE PRESIDENCY.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO AFTER YOU STEP DOWN FROM THE PRESIDENCY?</p><p>[GARCIA] WELL, I AM GOING TO BE FREE.</p><p>[AMAT] WHY DO YOU NOT COME TO COLOMBIA AND I AM SURE...</p><p>[GARCIA, INTERRUPTING] SURE, I ACCEPT YOUR INVITATION, AND I HOPE SOME COLOMBIANS WILL EXTEND IT. HOWEVER, I WANT TO TELL YOU VERY HONESTLY, THAT I AM PERHAPS BETTER AT SELLING DREAMS, IDEAS, AND DOCTRINES THAN AT ADMINISTERING A SITUATION OF PENURY, LIKE THE ONE OUR COUNTRIES ARE EXPERIENCING, AND MOST PARTICULARLY PERU, WHICH IS ONE OF THE POOREST COUNTRIES IN LATIN AMERICA. IT IS VERY DIFFICULT. FOR INSTANCE, ON A DAY WHEN THE PRICE OF RICE OR CHICKEN GOES UP, THE PEOPLE WILL NOT BELIEVE YOU, EVEN IF YOU TELL THEM THE GREATEST OF TRUTHS. ONE CAN BE PREACHING SOMETHING VERY IMPORTANT, BUT IF IT FAILED TO RAIN AND THE CITY HAD NO WATER NO ONE WILL BELIEVE OF YOU THE GREATEST OF ALL TRUTHS. THEN, WHEN ONE STOPS BEING PRESIDENT AND ADMINISTERING PENURY, ONE CAN DEVOTE ONESELF TO CONVINCING PEOPLE, TO EDUCATING. THAT IS WHAT I SHOULD DO.</p><p>[AMAT] NOW, WHY DID YOU MAKE THAT ASIDE, MAKING ME PRESIDENT OF ALL PERUVIANS, EVEN OF VARGAS LLOSA? WHETHER HE LIKES OR NOT IT HURTS HIM.</p><p>[GARCIA] BECAUSE I AM SURE THAT SOME PEOPLE WOULD NOT LIKE TO HAVE ME AS PRESIDENT. [LAUGHTER]</p><p>[AMAT] EVEN HIM, FOR INSTANCE?</p><p>[GARCIA] I DID NOT SAY SO. I DO NOT KNOW. I NEVER FALL TO THE LEVEL OF DEFINING PEOPLE OR POINTING OUT LAST NAMES. I MAKE AN OUTLINE OR DEFINE THEM IN THE NEGATIVE.</p><p>[AMAT] MR. PRESIDENT, [WORDS INDISTINCT] THIS DIALOGUE [WORDS INDISTINCT] FOR YOUR GENEROSITY AND KINDNESS. ADDRESSING OUR PEOPLE AND OUR COUNTRY, [WORDS INDISTINCT], HOW WERE THINGS TODAY AT THE SUMMIT?</p><p>[GARCIA] VERY WELL. COLOMBIANS, WHO HAVE SEEN THEIR INSTITUTION THREATENED, THEIR PRESS ABUSED, AND MANY POLITICIANS ALSO THREATENED, MUST HAVE CONFIDENCE THAT LATIN AMERICA, TOGETHER WITH THE UNITED STATES, WILL CONFRONT THE PROBLEM OF DRUG TRAFFICKING. THIS IS NOT ONLY A PROBLEM FOR COLOMBIA. IT IS OUR PROBLEM TOO, AND WE WILL TACKLE IT. THE DAY A NEWSPAPER WAS BLOWN UP IN BOGOTA I CAME TO BOGOTA BECAUSE I FELT THAT FREEDOM OF THE PRESS WAS THREATENED ON THE CONTINENT. AFTER ALL, WE ARE LATIN AMERICANS. LET COLOMBIANS HAVE CONFIDENCE.</p></body></html>