<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0055"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0055"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0055</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0055</p><p>LIMA, 5 OCT 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] IN LIMA TODAY, UNOFFICIAL SOURCES REPORTED THAT AT LEAST 2,500 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN DETAINED BY THE PERUVIAN POLICE IN RAIDS CARRIED OUT IN SEARCH OF HECTOR DELGADO PARKER, A LOCAL TELEVISION IMPRESARIO, AND HIS KIDNAPPERS.</p><p>THE POLICE RAIDS BEGAN SHORTLY AFTER THE KIDNAPPING OF DELGADO PARKER, A FORMER ADVISER TO PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA AND ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT TELEVISION IMPRESARIO. DELGADO PARKER WAS KIDNAPPED IN DOWNTOWN LIMA WEDNESDAY [4 OCTOBER] BY A COMMANDO OF THE PRO-CHE GUEVARA GROUP TUPAC AMARU REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT (MRTA).</p><p>AS A RESULT OF THE TERRORIST ACTION, DELGADO'S DRIVER WAS KILLED, AND DELGADO'S BODYGUARD WAS SERIOUSLY WOUNDED, WHILE DELGADO HIMSELF WAS VIOLENTLY ABDUCTED BY THE MRTA ACTIVISTS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE SOURCES, THE RAIDS CARRIED OUT BY THE POLICE, WHO DETAIN PEOPLE WITHOUT IDENTIFICATION PAPERS AND SUSPECTS AFTER CHECKING ON PEDESTRIANS AND VEHICLES, TOOK PLACE ON LIMA'S ACCESS ROADS AS WELL AS IN SOME SUBURBAN AREAS OF THIS CITY AND EVEN IN DOWNTOWN LIMA.</p><p>THE PERUVIAN NATIONAL POLICE HAVE REPORTED THAT SOME 2,000 AGENTS OF THE ANTITERRORIST DIRECTORATE (DIRCOTE) AND THE KIDNAPPING DIVISION ARE PARTICIPATING IN THE SEARCH OPERATIONS ORDERED BY PRESIDENT GARCIA.</p><p>IN TELEPHONE CALLS TO LIMA MEDIA, THE MRTA HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE KIDPANAPPING OF HECTOR DELGADO PARKER. TELEVISION "CHANNEL 5," OF WHICH THE KIDNAPPED BUSINESSMAN IS PART OWNER, WAS AMONG THE MEDIA MRTA CALLED.</p></body></html>