<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0081"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0081"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0081</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0081</p><p>BOGOTA, 27 AUG 89 (REUTER) -- [TEXT] THE RESPECTED EL ESPECTADOR NEWSPAPER HAS REPORTED THAT COLOMBIAN JUSTICE MINISTER MONICA DE GREIFF, A KEY OFFICIAL IN THE WAR ON DRUG TRAFFICKING, HAS RESIGNED.</p><p>MEANWHILE, MEDELLIN METROPOLITAN POLICE ANNOUNCED THAT, EARLY THIS MORNING, UNIDENTIFIED PERSONS PLACED 11 BOMBS IN VARIOUS GOVERNMENT BANK BRANCHES. SEVEN OF THESE BOMBS EXPLODED, CAUSING DAMAGE, BUT THERE WERE NO VICTIMS.</p><p>JUSTICE MINISTER MONICA DE GREIFF, 32, WENT TO THE UNITED STATES ON 25 AUGUST TO SUBMIT A SPECIFIC PLAN ON THE USE OF A $2-MILLION U.S. GRANT TO PROVIDE SECURITY TO COLOMBIAN JUDGES.</p><p>EL ESPECTADOR SAID THAT "RUMORS OF A POSSIBLE CABINET RESHUFFLE GREW, AND IT WAS FULLY CONFIRMED THAT JUSTICE MINISTER MONICA DE GREIFF HAD RESIGNED AND WILL STAY FOR AN INDEFINITE PERIOD IN THE UNITED STATES."</p><p>A JUSTICE MINISTRY SPOKESMAN DECLINED TO COMMENT ON THE NEWSPAPER REPORT, BUT A POLITICAL SOURCE OF THE RULING PARTY TOLD REUTER HE HAD HEARD THE MINISTER WAS GOING TO RESIGN.</p><p>ANOTHER SOURCE SAID GREIFF WILL STAY IN THE UNITED STATES FOR 12 DAYS AND THAT SHE WILL TENDER HER RESIGNATION UPON HER RETURN.</p><p>GREIFF, WHO WAS APPOINTED ON 16 JULY, WAS ASKED BEFORE LEAVING THE COUNTRY IF SHE WAS A WARTIME OR PEACETIME MINISTER. SHE REPLIED: "I AM A PEACETIME MINISTER."</p><p>LOCAL NEWS MEDIA AND POLITICAL SECTORS INTERPRETED THIS COMMENT AS AN ADVANCED NOTICE OF HER RESIGNATION.</p></body></html>