<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0092"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0092"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0092</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0092</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 19 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [STATEMENT] [GENERAL RAFAEL HUMBERTO LARIOS, SALVADORAN DEFENSE AND PUBLIC SECURITY MINISTER] [TEXT] DEAR SALVADORAN PEOPLE, OUR REPUBLIC, OUR SOCIETY, AND OUR PEOPLE BECAME THE VICTIMS OF A MURDEROUS AND TERRORIST AGGRESSION 8 DAYS AGO. THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT CARRIED OUT AN INCURSION IN OUR COUNTRY AND VENTED ALL ITS FURY AND ALL ITS TERROR AGAINST THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. THIS VIOLENT, IRRATIONAL, ILLOGICAL, AND SENSELESS ACTION BEGAN 8 DAYS AGO AGAINST PEACE-LOVING PEOPLE WHO WANT TO WORK, CHOOSE THEIR OWN DESTINY, AND SEEK THEIR WELFARE.</p><p>ON THIS OCCASION I AM DEEPLY MOVED BY THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S ATTITUDE, AND, IN MY ROLE AS DEFENSE AND PUBLIC SECURITY MINISTER, I HEARTILY CONGRATULATE THEM. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S ATTITUDE HAS REFLECTED THEIR STOICISM, STRONG WILL, AND INDOMITABLE SPIRIT, HOPE, AND FAITH IN GOD AND THE ARMED FORCES.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE, YOUR ATTITUDE IN RECENT DAYS HAS BEEN DIGNIFIED AND IT HAS SET AN EXAMPLE. IT IS WORTHY OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WHO HAVE ALWAYS PROVED THEIR FAITH AND WILLINGNESS TO DEFEND A JUST AND NOBLE CAUSE, THE HOMELAND'S CAUSE. THIS IS PRECISELY WHAT HAS GIVEN THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE THE WILL TO LIVE, LOVE, AND ACHIEVE PEACE.</p><p>YOUR ATTITUDE ENCOURAGES US, PLACES US UNDER AN OBLIGATION, AND URGES US -- AS AN INSTITUTION AT THE SERVICE OF THE PEOPLE -- TO CONTINUE THE STRUGGLE TO THE END, SO THAT WE MAY ERADICATE FOREVER THE TERROR, VIOLENCE, AND DISRESPECT THAT THE TERRORIST FORCES HAVE TRIED TO IMPOSE ON OUR HARD-WORKING AND INNOCENT PEOPLE.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE, YOUR ATTITUDE IS EXEMPLARY, AND WE, THE PROFESSIONAL SOLDIERS, ARE PREPARED -- LIKE WE HAVE ALWAYS BEEN -- TO SUPPORT AND DEFEND UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES AND IN ANY EVENT THE SECURITY, ORDER, TRANQUILLITY, WORK, AND PEACE THAT ALL THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE HAVE A RIGHT TO ENJOY.</p><p>ONWARD, SALVADORAN PEOPLE. AS AN INSTITUTION WE NEED YOUR SUPPORT. YOUR SUPPORT IS IMPORTANT AND YOUR UNDERSTANDING IS NECESSARY. YOU MUST BELIEVE IN AND TRUST THE ARMED FORCES, BECAUSE WE, WHO ARE ALSO PEOPLE LIKE YOU, UNDERSTAND THE LEGITIMATE DEMAND AND DESIRE FOR PEACE, FAITH, AND HOPE WHICH PREVAIL IN THE HEARTS AND MINDS OF ALL SALVADORAN CITIZENS -- AND WE ARE PLEASED AND SATISFIED TO DEFEND THEM.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES ARE AN INSTITUTION WHICH HAS THE RESPONSIBILITY OF GUARANTEEING THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S WELFARE, AND THEY ARE HIGHLY ENCOURAGED, DEEPLY PLEASED, AND DETERMINED TO CONTINUE THEIR WORK. THEY WILL DEFEND THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND GUARANTEE THEM A FUTURE WITH DIGNITY, PEACE, WELFARE, AND SECURITY. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>