<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0004"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0004"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0004</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0004</p><p>LA PAZ, 20 DEC 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] A POWERFUL DYNAMITE CHARGE TODAY EXPLODED NEAR THE AMERICAN EMBASSY IN LA PAZ. THE POLICE REPORTED THAT THE EXPLOSION CAUSED CONSIDERABLE DAMAGE TO ALL BUILDINGS ON THE BLOCK.</p><p>THE EXPLOSION OCCURRED AT 2130 (0130 GMT) ON THURSDAY [AS RECEIVED]. IT DAMAGED WINDOWS OF THE BUILDINGS ON THE BLOCK.</p><p>JOSE PARADA GRANDY, THE BOLIVIAN POLICE CHIEF, TOLD EFE THAT AN UNIDENTIFIED PERSON STEPPED OUT OF A VEHICLE AND PLACED A PACKAGE IN ONE OF THE PLANT POTS ON JUAN DE LA RIVA STREET, A FEW METERS FROM THE U.S. EMBASSY IN DOWNTOWN LA PAZ.</p><p>PARADA SAID: "THE VEHICLE LEFT AND IMMEDIATELY THE CHARGE WENT OFF CAUSING CONSIDERABLE DAMAGE."</p><p>THE "ZARATE WILLKA ARMED FORCES OF LIBERATION," A GROUP WITH AN INDIAN BAKCGROUND, HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACK IN A COMMUNIQUE THAT WAS SENT TO SOME MEDIA.</p><p>THE NOTE, SIGNED WITH THE INITIALS OF THE "ZARATE WILLKA" GROUP, STATES: "IN DEFENSE OF THE SOVEREIGNTY OF THE PANAMANIAN PEOPLE. DEATH TO THE INVADER. OUR HATRED IS RELENTLESS; OUR WAR IS TO DEATH."</p><p>THE "ZARATE WILLKA" GROUP CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY IN AUGUST 1988 FOR THE ATTACK AGAINST THEN U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE GEORGE SHULTZ AND THE KILLING OF TWO MORMON MISSIONARIES.</p><p>TODAY'S BOMB EXPLOSION DAMAGED THE SHELVES OF A BOOK STORE, THE "PEOPLE'S PERUVIAN BANK," THE STATE BANK [NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED]; THE MARISCAL BALLIVIAN BUILDING, AND OTHER SHOPS, ALL OF WHICH ARE LOCATED NEAR THE U.S. EMBASSY.</p><p>AFTER THE EXPLOSION, A GROUP OF U.S. AGENTS CALLED OFF AN INVESTIGATION AT THE SCENE OF THE INCIDENT BECAUSE SOME PEOPLE SHOUTED AT THEM, "YANKEES, OUT OF PANAMA."</p><p>THE U.S. EMBASSY PRESS ATTACHE, BRUCE WARTON, SAID TODAY THAT "IT IS OBVIOUSLY A DESPICABLE ACTION THAT DOES MORE HARM TO BOLIVIANS THAN TO THE U.S. EMBASSY, BECAUSE WE HAVE SUFFERED NO DAMAGES."</p></body></html>