<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0087"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0087"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAMBURG (FRG)"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0087</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0087</p><p>HAMBURG (FRG), 16 DEC 89 (DIE WELT) -- [INTERVIEW WITH CHILEAN PRESIDENT PATRICIO AYLWIN BY WERNER THOMAS] [TEXT] DIE WELT: YOUR THOUGHTS ARE FOCUSED ON CHILE, BUT LET US BRIEFLY LOOK AT EUROPE NEVERTHELESS. THE DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTION IN EAST EUROPE HAS ALSO BEEN A SENSATION TO CHILE. WHAT HOPES DO YOU PLACE IN THESE GIGANTIC RADICAL CHANGES?</p><p>AYLWIN: I THINK THAT THE CHANGES IN EAST EUROPE ARE OF VERY GREAT IMPORTANCE FOR MANKIND. THEY GIVE US SATISFACTION AND HOPE. THE OPENING OF THE BERLIN WALL SYMBOLIZES THE BEGINNING OF A NEW ERA IN RELATIONS BETWEEN EAST AND WEST AS WELL AS THE DESIRE OF THE GERMANS TO ACHIEVE UNITY AGAIN. WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE THIS SITUATION LEAD TO A REDUCTION IN MILITARY SPENDING AND TO CLOSER RELATIONS BETWEEN THE PEOPLES.</p><p>DIE WELT: WHAT EFFECTS DO YOU SEE FOR A THIRD WORLD COUNTRY SUCH AS CHILE?</p><p>AYLWIN: I SEE TWO EFFECTS. FIRST, A SYMBOLIC EFFECT. CHILE IS TRADITIONALLY A DEMOCRATIC COUNTRY. NOW THE LONG PERIOD OF A DICTATORIAL REGIME IS ENDING, HOWEVER. THIS EXPLOSION OF FREEDOM COINCIDES WITH THE RESTORATION OF DEMOCRACY IN CHILE. THAT IS A STIMULATING FEELING. WE ARE EMBARKING ON THE ROAD OF HUMANITY. SECOND, THERE IS A LOT OF TALK ABOUT THE DANGER OF COMMUNISM IN OUR COUNTRY; PEOPLE SAY THAT COMMUNISM COULD JEOPARDIZE OUR DEMOCRATIC FUTURE. I THINK THAT THE EVENTS IN EAST EUROPE AND THE SOVIET UNION DEMONSTRATE THAT COMMUNISM IS NO LONGER A DANGER FOR THE WORLD. NOR FOR CHILE.</p><p>DIE WELT: CHILE HAS THE BEST ORGANIZED COMMUNIST PARTY IN LATIN AMERICA. HAS THIS PARTY CHANGED? WHAT WAS ITS REACTION?</p><p>AYLWIN: LITTLE IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SITUATION OF SUCH A MONOLITHIC AND COHERENT PARTY. IT WAS ILLEGAL AND WORKED UNDERGROUND FOR A LONG TIME. HOWEVER, I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT ANY COMMUNIST PARTY CAN IGNORE THE EVENTS IN THAT PART OF THE WORLD WHICH HAS SO FAR BEEN DOMINATED BY COMMUNIST PARTIES. THE CHILEAN COMMUNIST PARTY LEADERS HAVE ADMITTED THAT THIS IS A UNIVERSAL PROCESS.</p><p>DIE WELT: WHAT RELATIONSHIP DO YOU HAVE WITH VOLODIA TEITELBOIM, THE GENERAL SECRETARY OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY? DO YOU SPEAK WITH HIM? DO YOU SEE HIM SOMETIMES?</p><p>AYLWIN: WE HAVE KNOWN EACH OTHER FROM THE TIME WHEN WE WERE BOTH SENATORS, MEANING PRIOR TO 1973. WE WERE POLITICAL OPPONENTS, BUT WE OFTEN TALKED WITH EACH OTHER. SINCE THEN, WE HAVE MET ONLY ONCE, AT A POLITICAL FUNCTION. MY RIVALS IN THIS ELECTION CAMPAIGN HAVE OFTEN MISREPRESENTED OUR RELATIONSHIP, AND HAVE DESCRIBED ME AS TEITELBOIM'S SECRET ALLY. HOWEVER, I THINK THAT PEOPLE OF DIFFERENT PERSUASIONS CAN TALK WITH EACH OTHER AND CAN REACH AGREEMENT. THAT HAS BEEN DONE IN CHILE WITH SOME SUCCESS.</p><p>DIE WELT: THE COMMUNIST PARTY BACKED YOUR CANDIDACY. WILL IT BE REPRESENTED IN THE NEW GOVERNMENT?</p><p>AYLWIN: NOT AT ALL.</p><p>DIE WELT: BUT THE FUTURE GOVERNMENT WILL BE A LEFT-CENTER GOVERNMENT AND WILL REFLECT THE COMPOSITION OF THE OPPOSITION TODAY.</p><p>AYLWIN: YES, CHILE WILL HAVE A LEFT-CENTER GOVERNMENT. THE VARIOUS SOCIALIST CURRENTS WILL BE REPRESENTED. HOWEVER, THE STRONGEST MOVEMENT IS THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY WHICH IS IN THE CENTER.</p><p>DIE WELT: DO YOU THINK THAT FOLLOWING THESE ELECTIONS, THE PANORAMA OF THE OPPOSITION WILL CHANGE?</p><p>AYLWIN: I HAVE NO DOUBT ABOUT THAT. THERE HAVE BEEN FOUR FAMILIES IN THE PAST -- THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC FAMILY, THE SOCIAL DEMOCRATICALLY-ORIENTED FAMILY OF THE OLD RADICAL PARTY, THE SOCIALIST FAMILY, AND THE FAMILY OF THE RIGHT CENTER. THEY ALL WANT TO SURVIVE.</p><p>DIE WELT: MANY PEOPLE SAY THAT THE SOCIALIST RICARDO LAGOS IS THE STRONGEST FIGURE OF THE OPPOSITION ALLIANCE. WHAT ROLE WILL HE PLAY IN THE FUTURE?</p><p>AYLWIN: HE WILL CONCENTRATE ON PARLIAMENTARY WORK AS A SENATOR. AS IS THE CASE IN EVERY PARLIAMENTARY DEMOCRACY, HE CANNOT BE A MEMBER OF THE GOVERNMENT AS A REPRESENTATIVE OF CONGRESS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>