<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0082"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0082"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CARACAS (VENEZUELA)"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0082</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0082</p><p>CARACAS (VENEZUELA), 18 MAY 90 (VENEZOLANA DE TELEVISION CANAL 8) -- [TEXT] GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO HAS PRESENTED TO THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT A PROPOSAL TO RESTRUCTURE THE SAN JOSE AGREEMENT. THE PROPOSAL COVERS THE SUPPLY OF OIL AND THE SALE OF FINISHED PRODUCTS. ANOTHER POINT INCLUDED IS THE REFINANCING OF THE GUATEMALAN DEBT WITH VENEZUELA, WHICH TOTALS $200 MILLION.</p><p>THE GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT'S ACTIVITIES BEGAN TODAY AT MIRAFLORES PALACE WHEN, PRIOR TO THE SIGNING OF THE TWO AGREEMENTS, THE VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT HELD A PRIVATE MEETING WITH HIS GUATEMALAN COUNTERPART. THE PRESIDENTS THEN HELD A FORMAL WORK SESSION WITH THE PARTICIPATION OF TWO COMMISSIONS AT THE MINISTERIAL LEVEL. GUATEMALA, LIKE OTHER COUNTRIES THAT BENEFIT FROM THE SAN JOSE AGREEMENT, ARE FACING THE PROBLEM OF NOT BEING ABLE TO HONOR ALL COMMITMENTS ON DEBTS AS THEY MATURE. THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE SAN JOSE AGREEMENT WAS ONE OF THE POINTS DISCUSSED BY PRESIDENT CEREZO DURING A NEWS CONFERENCE TODAY AT THE AYACUCHO ROOM OF THE PRESIDENTIAL PALACE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CEREZO] WE HAVE PROPOSED A 20-YEAR TERM TO RESTRUCTURE THE DEBT, WITH A SIX-YEAR GRACE PERIOD, AT FOUR PERCENT INTEREST. OBVIOUSLY, THIS HAS NOT BEEN THE USUAL PROCEDURE AT THE VENEZUELAN INVESTMENT FUND NOR IS THIS INCLUDED IN THE SAN JOSE AGREEMENT. FOR THESE REASONS, BECAUSE THIS PROPOSAL DOES NOT FIT VENEZUELAN LAW, WE NEED TO DISCUSS AND ADJUST THE TERMS TO THE LAW AND THE SAN JOSE AGREEMENT. HOWEVER, THERE IS WILLINGNESS TO DISCUSS THE TERMS. WE WILL OBVIOUSLY HAVE TO MAKE THE SAME PROPOSAL TO THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT, FROM WHOM WE EXPECT THE SAME ATTITUDE AND UNDERSTANDING, AND WE ARE CERTAIN WE WILL HAVE IT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>WITHIN THE FORMAL CEREZO VISIT, TWO IMPORTANT AGREEMENTS BETWEEN VENEZUELA AND GUATEMALA WERE SIGNED TODAY. ONE OF THEM IS A COOPERATION AND FRIENDSHIP AGREEMENT. ANOTHER IS A SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT IN ENERGY AND MINING MATTERS, WHICH WILL STRENGTHEN BILATERAL RELATIONS. AS ENERGY AND MINES MINISTER CELESTINO ARMAS SAID UPON SIGNING THE AGREEMENTS, THIS WILL PERMIT CARRYING OUT JOINT OIL EXPLORATION OPERATIONS.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ARMAS] FOR EXAMPLE, IN THE AREA OF OIL EXPLORATION, THERE ARE VERY INTERESTING PROSPECTS IN GUATEMALA THAT COULD RESULT IN GREAT INTEREST FOR GUATEMALA AND FOR VENEZUELA. WITH REGARD TO MINING, WE HAVE BEEN DISCUSSING THE POSSIBILITY OF MAKING SOME PROGRESS IN THE MINING SECTOR IN GUATEMALA AND THE POSSIBILITY OF HELPING GUATEMALA DISCOVER MINERAL DEPOSITS THAT COULD BE VERY ATTRACTIVE FOR OUR ECONOMIES. [END RECORDING]</p><p>FOLLOWING THE NEWS CONFERENCE HELD AT THE MIRAFLORES PALACE, GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO WENT TO THE CELA [ECONOMIC COMISSION FOR LATIN AMERICA]. THE CEREZO AGENDA INCLUDED A DINNER HE WILL HOST TONIGHT FOR HIS COUNTERPART CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ.</p></body></html>