<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0007"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0007"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MEDELLIN"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0007</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0007</p><p>MEDELLIN, 12 APR 90 (DPA) -- [TEXT] MEDELLIN MAYOR JUAN GOMEZ MARTINEZ ONCE MORE INSISTED TODAY ON "AN IMMEDIATE DIALOGUE" BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE COCAINE TRAFFICKERS "TO END THE WAR IN WHICH INNOCENT PEOPLE ARE BEING KILLED."</p><p>THE MAYOR REITERATED HIS POSITION WHEN HE COMMENTED ON THE ATTACK IN WHICH 20 PERSONS WERE KILLED AND APPROXIMATELY 100 WERE INJURED, WHICH WAS PERPETRATED YESTERDAY BY TERRORISTS ON THE DRUG CARTEL'S PAYROLL NEAR ITAGUI MUNICIPALITY.</p><p>THE BLAST FROM THE EXPLOSION HIT A TRUCK FULL OF POLICEMEN, WHO HAD EARLIER CARRIED OUT AN ANTI-MAFIA OPERATION IN A PEASANT VILLAGE, AS WELL AS SEVERAL PUBLIC BUSES, HOUSES, AND BUSINESSES.</p><p>A POLICE EXPERT SAID THAT THE CAR BOMB (CONTAINING 300 KG OF DYNAMITE) WAS ACTIVATED BY REMOTE CONTROL AS THE ELITE FORCE PATROL PASSED BY.</p><p>ACCORDING TO GOMEZ MARTINEZ, "THESE ACTIONS WILL ONLY CEASE WHEN (PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS') GOVERNMENT PUTS ASIDE SO MUCH PREJUDICE AND AGREES TO THE PEACE TALKS," PROPOSED BY THE SUBVERSIVES.</p><p>"THE DIALOGUE WILL TAKE PLACE SONNER OR LATER, AND IT IS BETTER TO START NOW," INSISTED THE MAYOR OF MEDELLIN, A CITY WHERE THE WORLD'S MOST POWERFUL CARTEL HAS ITS BASE OF OPERATIONS.</p><p>THE CHIEF OF THE CRIMINAL GANG, PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA, ORDERED THE ASSASSINATION OF MEDELLIN POLICEMEN IN RETALIATION FOR THE GOVERNMENT'S ACTION AGAINST THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS. TWENTY-EIGHT POLICEMEN HAVE BEEN KILLED IN THIS CITY OVER THE LAST TWO WEEKS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO SECURITY ORGANIZATIONS, YESTERDAY'S ATTACK "COULD BE ESCOBAR GAVIRIA'S RESPONSE TO THE ARREST OF ADOLFO MESA MENESES," HIS RIGHT-HAND MAN.</p><p>MESA MENESES WAS ARRESTED LAST WEEK BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY (DAS, SECRET POLICE), AND THE AUTHORITIES HAVE ACCUSED HIM OF ASSASSINATING -- ON ORDERS FROM THE MAFIA LEADER -- LEFTIST PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE BERNARDO JARAMILLO OSSA, AS WELL AS A CHIEF OF POLICE, A MAYOR, AND SEVERAL JOURNALISTS.</p><p>MEANWHILE, HUNDREDS OF SOLDIERS, POLICEMEN, AND DETECTIVES ARE CARRYING OUT LARGE-SCALE OPERATIONS IN THE COLOMBIAN COUNTRYSIDE AND BORDER AREAS ON THE SUSPICION THAT ESCOBAR GAVIRIA PLANS TO FLEE THE COUNTRY.</p><p>LAST NIGHT, A TELEVISION NEWSCAST SHOWED PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE "DRUG LORD" THAT HAD BEEN "RECENTLY" TAKEN BY SECURITY ORGANIZATIONS AT A COLOMBIAN BEACH ON THE PACIFIC COAST.</p><p>A POLICE DEPARTMENT SPOKESMAN CONFIRMED TODAY THAT "WE HAVE RELIABLE INFORMATION ON HIS WHEREABOUTS," ALTHOUGH HE REFRAINED FROM GIVING FURTHER DETAILS. UNOFFICIAL SOURCES SAID THAT ESCOBAR GAVIRIA "IS SOMEWHERE IN WESTERN ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT" -- OF WHICH MEDELLIN IS THE CAPITAL -- WHERE THE SEARCH OPERATIONS ARE CONCENTRATED.</p><p>COLOMBIAN AUTHORITIES HAVE ALSO ASKED FOR THE COOPERATION OF BRAZIL, ECUADOR, PANAMA, PERU, AND VENEZUELA TO STOP THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS FROM ESCAPING TO THOSE COUNTRIES.</p></body></html>