<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0090"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0090"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1988-04-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0090</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0090</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 29 APR 88 (VOZ DE HONDURAS NETWORK) -- [INTERVIEW WITH PRESIDENT JOSE AZCONA HOYO BY FRANCISCO VALERIANO GIRON] [TEXT] [BEGIN RECORDING] [GIRON] IS THERE ANY UNREST BECAUSE OF SOME OF THE LAWS PASSED BY CONGRESS?</p><p>[AZCONA] NO, THERE IS NO UNREST BECAUSE OF LAWS PASSED BY CONGRESS. SOME MEASURES THAT HAVE AFFECTED INCOME HAVE BEEN ADOPTED, BUT WE WILL MAKE PROGRESS ANYHOW.</p><p>[GIRON] WILL YOU ASK THAT SOME OF THESE LAWS BE RECONSIDERED?</p><p>[AZCONA] NO, I AM NOT GOING TO DO THAT. THERE IS, HOWEVER, THE LAW ON COFFEE TAXES WHICH COULD BE DISCUSSED WITH PRODUCERS BECAUSE THE LAW-DECREE ON COFFEE IS VERY DRASTIC. HOWEVER, THE COUNTRY IS MAKING PROGRESS, AND ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES IN VARIOUS SECTORS--COMMERCE, CONSTRUCTION, AND MANUFACTURING--ARE ON THE INCREASE. SOME SECTORS HAVE SOME PROBLEMS, BUT I BELIEVE WE ARE GOING TO RESOLVE THOSE PROBLEMS.</p><p>[GIRON] DO YOU HAVE ECONOMIC ADVISERS, MR PRESIDENT?</p><p>[AZCONA] ANY PERSON CONSULTED IS AN ECONOMIC ADVISER. THE MAIN ECONOMIC ADVISERS, HOWEVER, ARE THOSE IN THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>[GIRON] IT IS BEING SAID THAT POLITICALLY SPEAKING YOU HAVE BEEN LEFT ON YOUR OWN. IS THIS HOW YOU SEE IT ALSO?</p><p>[AZCONA] NO WAY. HOW COULD I BE ALONE? ON THE CONTRARY, WE ARE DOING WELL. I BELIEVE WE ARE GOING TO RECEIVE MORE SUPPORT. I DO NOT SEE WHY I COULD BE LEFT ALONE. THERE IS THE GOVERNMENT AND THE EXPERTS. WE ARE ESTABLISHING RELATIONS WITH THE PARTY, WITH THE MOST IMPORTANT PEOPLE OF THE PARTY.</p><p>[GIRON] ARE EMPLOYEES GOING TO BE PRESSURED?</p><p>[AZCONA] I DO NOT BELIEVE THEY ARE GOING TO BE FORCED TO DO ANYTHING BECAUSE NO LAW SAYS THAT THE EMPLOYEES OF A GOVERNMENT MUST SUPPORT ANY PARTICULAR PARTY. HOWEVER, I BELIEVE THAT IF THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH WORKS IN UNISON, AS IT HAS BEEN DOING, THEN ALL MEMBERS OF THE LIBERAL PARTY WILL BE HAPPY TO MAKE CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE PARTY TO GUARANTEE A NEW VICTORY.</p><p>[GIRON] WOULD YOU SUPPORT REFORMS TO THE ELECTORAL LAW?</p><p>[AZCONA] WE DISCUSSED THAT ISSUE TODAY. APPARENTLY THE NATIONAL CONVENTION, WHICH IS THE PARTY'S TOP AUTHORITY, HAS APPROVED SOME REFORMS.</p><p>[GIRON] DO YOU AGREE WITH INTERNAL ELECTIONS TAKING PLACE SIMULTANEOUSLY [AS HEARD]?</p><p>[AZCONA] I BELIEVE IT WOULD BE BENEFICIAL IF THEY TAKE PLACE IN ONE SINGLE DAY, BUT WE DID NOT DISCUSS THAT TODAY, AND I DO NOT WANT TO DISCUSS DETAILS ABOUT THAT.</p><p>[GIRON] DO YOU BELIEVE THAT EITHER YOUR GOVERNMENT OR YOURSELF COULD HAVE BEEN POLITICALLY HARMED BY THE LATEST CRISIS ENDURED BY THE COUNTRY?</p><p>[AZCONA] I DO NOT THINK SO. I THINK THAT WHAT HAPPENED WILL BENEFIT THE COUNTRY. ACTS OF VIOLENCE ARE REGRETTABLE, BUT THOSE THAT HAVE TAKEN PLACE HAVE SHOWN THAT WE IN HONDURAS ARE NOT IMMUNE TO VIOLENCE. THE SAME DAY INCIDENTS WERE TAKING PLACE HERE, 13 PERSONS DIED IN SAN SALVADOR AS A RESULT OF A BOMB EXPLOSION. THE LOSS OF LIVES IS UNFORTUNATE AND VIOLENCE AGAINST A BUILDING AND FACILITIES NEXT TO THE U.S. EMBASSY IS REGRETTABLE BECAUSE THIS DOES NOT HELP THE COUNTRY.</p><p>[GIRON] HAVE YOU TALKED WITH U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS ABOUT AN INDEMNITY? IT IS BEING SAID THAT DAMAGE AMOUNTS TO $6 MILLION.</p><p>[AZCONA] NO, WE HAVE NOTHING ABOUT $6 MILLION. WHAT WE HAVE RECEIVED IS A NOTE FROM THE U.S. AMBASSADOR THE DAY AFTER THE INCIDENTS. THEY ARE ENTITLED TO FILE A PROTEST. THE NOTE SAYS THAT LATER THERE WILL BE A [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>HONDURAS SIGNED THE GENEVA CONVENTION ON THE RESPONSIBILITY OF GOVERNMENTS WHEN ACTIONS ARE CARRIED OUT AGAINST DIPLOMATIC INSTALLATIONS.</p><p>[GIRON] THE FORCING OF RADIO STATIONS TO JOIN A RADIO NETWORK AND THE IMPOSING OF A STATE OF EMERGENCY HAVE BEEN THE SOURCE OF MUCH CRITICISM AGAINST YOUR GOVERNMENT.</p><p>[AZCONA] I HAVE HEARD SOME CRITICISM BECAUSE OF THE NETWORK. PERHAPS WE HAD IT FOR A FEW HOURS TOO MANY. REGARDING THE STATE OF EMERGENCY, HOWEVER, THE PEOPLE HAVE RESPONDED POSITIVELY BECAUSE ONE MORE CASUALTY WOULD HAVE HAD NEGATIVE EFFECTS. THE STATE OF EMERGENCY MADE IT POSSIBLE FOR PEOPLE TO COOL DOWN, AND THOSE ON THE STREETS RETURNED TO THEIR HOMES. I FEEL IT WAS BENEFICIAL. THE DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY DECREE WAS BASED ON THE CONSTITUTION AND ON PRESIDENTIAL AUTHORITY. CONGRESS WAS INFORMED ABOUT THIS.</p><p>I BELIEVE THIS WAS A POSITIVE MEASURE, AND THIS IS HOW THE PEOPLE HAVE VIEWED IT, POSITIVELY.</p><p>[GIRON] DO YOU BELIEVE THE SITUATION HAS BEEN OVERCOME?</p><p>[AZCONA] WE DO NOT KNOW IF THE SITUATION IS OVER. I THINK SO. I BELIEVE THAT WHAT HAPPENED IS THAT TEMPERS GOT HOT FOR A MOMENT, AND THAT SOME SECTORS, WHICH I DO NOT WANT TO NAME BECAUSE THEY HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED BY THE PEOPLE, TOOK ADVANTAGE OF THIS. PERHAPS SOME PEOPLE TRIED TO MAKE POLITICAL GAINS AND THE SITUATION GOT OUT OF HAND.</p><p>I BELIEVE, HOWEVER, THAT EVERYTHING IS MORE OR LESS QUIET. THE GOVERNMENT IS TALKING WITH THE VARIOUS SECTORS. THERE IS A SMALL STRIKE BY A SMALL GROUP OF HEALTH WORKERS. CHECKS WITH SALARY INCREASES COVERING A 4-MONTH PERIOD WILL BE PAID TODAY. SOME READJUSTMENTS WILL BE MADE TO FAVOR SOME EMPLOYEES WHO HAVE NOT RECEIVED THE INCREASES WE HAD PROMISED.</p><p>WE WANT TO APPEAL TO HEALTH SECTOR LABOR UNIONS TO SET ASIDE ANY CONFRONTATIONAL ATTITUDE BECAUSE THE GOVERNMENT IS MEETING AND WILL MEET ALL ITS COMMITMENTS.</p><p>[GIRON] WHAT CAN YOU TELL US ABOUT THE LATEST INCIDENTS WITH NICARAGUA?</p><p>[AZCONA] THESE ARE NOT THE FIRST INCIDENTS. I BELIEVE INCIDENTS WILL CONTINUE HAPPENING. HOWEVER, THE GOVERNMENT IS PREPARED TO ENFORCE RESPECT FOR THE COUNTRY'S SOVEREIGNTY. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>