<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0070"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0070"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-05"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0070</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0070</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 5 OCT 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] TODAY, RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS EVACUATED DOZENS OF PEOPLE WHO WERE LOCKED INSIDE "LA CENTROAMERICANA" BUILDING IN SAN SALVADOR WHERE THE COSTA RICAN EMBASSY IS LOCATED. HOWEVER, THE EMBASSY CONTINUES TO BE OCCUPIED BY APPROXIMATELY 50 DEMONSTRATORS.</p><p>AMBASSADOR JESUS FERNANDEZ AND ANOTHER TWO DIPLOMATS, AS WELL AS THREE SALVADORAN TELEVISION JOURNALISTS, ARE STILL BEING HELD HOSTAGE.</p><p>APPROXIMATELY 50 PEOPLE LEFT THE BUILDING IN WHICH THEY WERE LOCKED FOR 5 HOURS FOLLOWING THE OCCUPATION OF THE EMBASSY BY MEMBERS AND SYMPATHIZERS OF THE MSGR OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO FEDERATION OF COMMITTEES OF MOTHERS AND RELATIVES (FECMAFAM) OF POLITICAL PRISONERS AND MURDERED AND MISSING PEOPLE.</p><p>THE AMBASSADOR AND OTHER EMBASSY OFFICIALS STILL REMAIN ON THE THIRD FLOOR OF THE BUILDING, WHICH WAS SURROUNDED BY DOZENS OF RIOT POLICEMEN EXPERT IN ANTITERRORIST STRUGGLE, ARMED WITH HIGH-CALIBER RIFLES.</p><p>RED CROSS, GREEN CROSS, AND RELIEF COMMAND MEMBERS PARTICIPATED IN THE EVACUATION OF THE OFFICES IN THE BUILDING.</p><p>COLONEL ALEJANDRO SANCHEZ, DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF THE SALVADORAN NATIONAL POLICE, SAID THAT "THE PROBLEM COULD BE SOLVED WITHIN THE NEXT 24 HOURS, BUT OFFICIAL SOURCES RULED OUT THE USE OF FORCE.</p><p>MAURICIO SANDOVAL, DIRECTOR OF THE PRESIDENCY'S COMMUNICATIONS SECRETARIAT, WENT TO "LA CENTROAMERICANA" BUILDING, LOCATED IN EL SALVADOR'S BUSINESS DISTRICT, TO LEARN ABOUT THE SITUATION AND DESCRIBED THE OCCUPATION AS A "PROPAGANDA ACT" IN VIEW OF THE FACT THAT THE SECOND ROUND OF TALKS BETWEEN THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND THE GUERRILLAS, SCHEDULED FOR 16 AND 17 OCTOBER IN SAN JOSE (COSTA RICA), IS DRAWING CLOSER.</p><p>THE FECMAFAM OCCUPIED THE COSTA RICAN EMBASSY TO PROTEST "AN INCREASE IN REPRESSION AGAINST POPULAR ORGANIZATIONS UNLEASHED BY ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S FASCIST GOVERNMENT," FECMAFAM SPOKESMEN SAID.</p><p>MOST OF THOSE OCCUPYING THE EMBASSY ARE WOMEN WEARING WHITE SCARFS AND YOUTHS CARRYING WET HANDKERCHIEFS TO AVOID THE EFFECTS OF TEAR GAS.</p><p>SANDOVAL DISCLOSED THAT A WORKING COMMISSION HAS BEEN FORMED TO MAINTAIN CONSULTATIONS WITH THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT "AND IS MAKING PERTINENT CONTACTS" TO SEEK A QUICK SOLUTION TO THIS PROBLEM.</p><p>THE OFFICIAL STRESSED: "WE WILL NOT BEGIN NEGOTIATIONS" WITH THE EMBASSY OCCUPIERS, WHOM, ACCORDING TO THE AMBASSADOR, ARE ARMED.</p><p>THE PRESIDENTIAL SPOKESMAN ALSO REPORTED THAT, IN THE WAKE OF THESE INCIDENTS, FERNANDEZ HAD A SLIGHT CARDIAC PROBLEM, BUT HAS ALREADY GOTTEN OVER IT.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THIS OFFICIAL, FERNANDEZ' WIFE SENT HIM MEDICINE AND FOOD.</p><p>SANDOVAL ANNOUNCED THAT AN OFFICIAL COMMUNIQUE WILL BE ISSUED WITHIN THE NEXT FEW HOURS.</p></body></html>