<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0054"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0054"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0054</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0054</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 8 JAN 90 -- [TEXT] THE RECTOR OF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY [UCA], FATHER MIGUEL FRANCISCO ESTRADA, HAS DESCRIBED THE GOVERNMENT'S REPORT THAT ARMED FORCES ELEMENTS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE KILLING OF SIX UCA PRIESTS AS MOST IMPORTANT, ALTHOUGH HE ALSO NOTED THAT THE REPORT IS INCOMPLETE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ESTRADA] I BELIEVE IT IS INCOMPLETE BECAUSE WE DO NOT YET KNOW WHO COMMITTED THE CRIMES. WE ONLY KNOW THAT THEY BELONG TO AN INSTITUTION, AND THIS OF COURSE IS ONLY PARTIAL INFORMATION.</p><p>[REPORTER] DID YOU KNOW THAT THE GOVERNMENT WAS GOING TO MAKE THIS ANNOUNCEMENT LAST NIGHT, OR WAS IT A SURPRISE?</p><p>[ESTRADA] I THINK IT WAS A SURPRISE BECAUSE WE HAD BEEN IN TOUCH WITH THE PRESIDENT AND WITH THE CRIME COMMISSION, WHICH IS THE ONE CARRYING OUT THE INVESTIGATIONS ON ORDERS FROM THE PRESIDENT AND THE GOVERNMENT. THEY PROMISED US THAT IF WE WERE TO COOPERATE BY PROVIDING INFORMATION, THEY WOULD DO EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO RESOLVE THE PROBLEM AND CARRY OUT THE INVESTIGATIONS.</p><p>AT THAT POINT I WAS SKEPTICAL, BECAUSE THE PERSONS WHO HAVE TESTIFIED HAVE ACCUSED THE ARMED FORCES, AND I HAD NEVER SEEN A SALVADORAN PRESIDENT OR THE ARMED FORCES MAKING A SERIOUS EFFORT TO CLEAN UP ITS IMAGE AND CARRY OUT INVESTIGTIONS TO PUT MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES IN PRISON. I WAS SKEPTICAL. I HAD NEVER SEEN THAT HAPPEN, BUT FACTS SHOW THAT I WAS MISTAKEN. [END RECORDING]</p><p>FATHER ESTRADA HAS ADMITTED THAT THERE HAS BEEN INTERNATIONAL PRESSURE TO HAVE THIS CASE INVESTIGATED, BUT HE OPTIMISTICALLY BELIEVES THAT THE DECISION TO INVESTIGATE HAS BEEN ADOPTED ALSO FOR THE SAKE OF THE PRESTIGE OF THE ARMED FORCES.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [ESTRADA] I AM INCLINED TO BELIEVE THAT THE ARMED FORCES ARE ACTING NOT ONLY AS A RESULT OF PRESSURE, BUT ALSO BECAUSE THEY COULD BE DENIED MILITARY OR ECONOMIC AID. I BELIEVE THAT A CRIME SUCH AS THE ONE BEING INVESTIGATED GOES AGAINST THE VERY ESSENCE OF THE ARMED FORCES, WHICH EXISTS TO PROTECT THE CITIZENS, NOT TO HARM THEM. [END RECORDING]</p><p>FATHER ESTRADA SAID HE TRUSTS IN THE MORAL STRENGTH OF PRESIDENT CRISTIANI TO SEE THIS CASE THROUGH TO THE END. HE CAUTIONED, HOWEVER, THAT SO FAR NOTHING NEW HAS BEEN SAID AND THAT A LISTING OF THE PEOPLE INVOLVED AND A JUST SENTENCE WOULD BE NEWS.</p></body></html>