<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0009"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0009"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="RIO DE JANEIRO (BRAZIL)"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0009</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0009</p><p>RIO DE JANEIRO (BRAZIL), NO DATE (O GLOBO) -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] LAWYER CARLOS OLDINEY REPORTED THE GANG AND FEDERAL AGENTS VALDEMIR LOPEZ PRAZERES AND LUIS JOSE DA CONCEICAO AND DETECTIVES PAULO MASSANHYO AND CARLOS ANGEL SERRANO CASTILESSO WERE ARRESTED.</p><p>CAMBARALAMAIA'S ORGANIZATION IS JUST ONE OF THE MANY GANGS IN THE REGION THAT DEALS WITH BOLIVIAN COCAINE. ANOTHER GANG IS LED BY GERSON PALERMO, OF UMUARAMA, PARANA STATE, WHO CONTROLS THE EXCHANGE OF COCAINE TO PARAGUAY FOR STOLEN BRAZILIAN CARS. PALERMO OWNS FOUR TWIN-ENGINED CESSNA PLANES AND EMPLOYS MORE THAN 200 MEN. HE ALSO EXCHANGE CARS FOR COCAINE IN BOLIVIA. ALTHOUGH SENTENCED BY THE BRAZILIAN COURTS, PALERMO LIVES IN PEDRO JUAN CABALLERO, PARAGUAY, WHERE HE MAINTAINS BUSINESS CONTACTS WITH THE BOLIVIAN COCA PRODUCERS. PALERMO OBTAINS ETHER AND ACETONE, WHICH ARE ESSENTIAL FOR REFINING THE DRUG, FROM ARGENTINA.</p><p>THE FEDERAL POLICE BELIEVES THAT THE DRUG MIGHT BE REFINED IN MATO GROSSO DO SUL, NEAR SOME RESIDENCES IN THE DOURADOS AND CAMPO GRANDE SECTORS. PALERMO EXCHANGES THE CHEMICALS FOR TONS OF COCAINE PASTE WHICH, IN THE OPINION OF REGIONAL FEDERAL POLICE DELEGATE FRANCISCO VIANA QUEIROZ, IS ALSO PROCESSED IN PARAGUAY. VIANA QUEIROZ MAINTAINS THAT THE DRUG IS REFINED BY A GROUP OF TRAFFICKERS LED BY ARSENIO BENITEZ GONZALEZ, WHO IS KNOWN AS VILHAR AND WHO LIVES IN ASUNCION. THE FEDERAL POLICE BELIEVE THAT VILHAR -- WHO IS BELIEVED TO BE PALERMO'S PARTNER -- IS THE BRAZILIAN TRAFFICKERS' MAIN COCAINE SUPPLIER.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE POLICE, TWO DRUG ROUTES PASS THROUGH MATO GROSSO DO SUL: THE PONTA PORA ROUTE (WHICH IS USED BY PALERMO), AND THE CORUMBA ROUTE, WHICH PASSES THROUGH THE BOLIVIAN TOWN OF PUERTO SUAREZ. MANY TRAFFICKERS COME TO THIS BOLIVIAN TOWN, MOST OF THEM SMALL SUPPLIERS WHO ONLY WANT TO EXCHANGE COCAINE FOR CARS THAT WERE STOLEN IN BRAZIL. ACCORDING TO THE AUTHORITIES, THE CORUMBA ROUTE IS MORE IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT CHANNELS THE SO-CALLED "MINI-TRAFFIC." THIS INVOLVES HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE WHO, TOGETHER, MAKE UP A SIZABLE QUANTITY OF DRUGS EVERY DAY.</p><p>THE CARS ARE THE HARD CURRENCY USED IN THESE TRANSACTIONS. MOST OF THEM ARE TAKEN TO BOLIVIA AFTER HAVING BEEN STOLEN IN SAO PAULO. THEY FOLLOW THE SAME ROUTE AS THE BOLIVIAN COCAINE, THAT IS, VIA PUERTO SUAREZ. THE MOST IMPORTANT PART OF THE TRAFFICKING, HOWEVER, IS CARRIED OUT IN PARAGUAY AND BOLIVIA. GERSON PALERMO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR PART OF IT, WHILE THE REST IS SHARED BY HUNDREDS OF BOLIVIAN TRAFFICKERS. PALERMO OBTAINS ETHER AND ACETONE FROM FORMOSA, ARGENTINA. HE TAKES THESE CHEMICALS ABOARD SMALL PLANES TO THE TOWNS OF PILAR OR ENCARNACION, IN PARAGUAY. FROM THERE, ANOTHER GROUP TAKES THE 200-LITER DRUMS ALONG THE CHACO HIGHWAY TO PUERTO GUARANI, IN BOLIVIA. BOLIVIAN TRAFFICKERS TAKE CARE OF THE REST OF THE JOURNEY TO SANTA CRUZ DE LA SIERRA. IN RETURN, PALERMO RECEIVES COCAINE PASTE WHICH IS SHIPPED TO ASUNCION AND, FROM THERE, TO PEDRO JUAN CABALLERO FOR DISTRIBUTION TO THE PROCESSING UNITS. IT IS BELIEVED THAT THE TRAFFICKERS USE SOME RANCHES NEAR PORTO MURTINHO (MATO GROSSO DE SUL), NEAR THE PARAGUAYAN TOWN OF BAHIA NEGRA, TO PROCESS LARGE QUANTITIES OF COCAINE.</p><p>NO COCAINE PASTE IS USUALLY AVAILABLE ALONG THE CORUMBA ROUTE. THE DRUG IS REFINED BECAUSE IT IS RELATIVELY EASY TO FIND ETHER AND ACETONE IN CORUMBA, WHERE THE FEDERAL POLICE HAVE FAILED TO REDUCE THE LARGE DEMAND FOR SUCH CHEMICALS IN RETAIL STORES. DOZENS OF DRUGSTORES SELL THOSE PRODUCTS BY THE LITER, AND THIS IS NOT FORBIDDEN BY LAW.</p><p>THE AUTHORITIES ESTIMATE THAT PRODUCTION IN THE PUERTO SUAREZ REGION NEARS 300 KG PER WEEK, WHICH IS TRANSPORTED BY RAILROAD, AIR, AND LAND. IN AN ATTEMPT TO EVADE THE FEDERAL POLICE, TRAFFICKERS HAVE TRIED TO TRANSPORT THE DRUG INSIDE THEIR BODIES, IN WINE DEMIJOHNS, AND EVEN IN CHILDREN'S DIAPERS. THESE TRAFFICKERS GENERALLY TRAVEL BY BUS OR BY TRAIN. OVER THE PAST 6 MONTHS THE POLICE CAUGHT DOZENS OF TRAFFICKERS USING THESE METHODS. NOW, HOWEVER, ONLY WITH THE COMPLICITY OF THE POLICE CAN CARS CARRYING BOLIVIAN COCAINE PRODUCED IN THE PUERTO SUAREZ REGION REACH CAMPO GRANDE.</p></body></html>