<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0052"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0052"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEL AVIV (ISRAEL)"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0052</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0052</p><p>TEL AVIV (ISRAEL), 27 AUG 89 (IDF RADIO) -- [EXCERPTS] EDUCATION MINISTER YITZHAQ NAVON TODAY DEMANDED IN THE CABINET SESSION THAT THE GOVERNMENT RETURN ALL ISRAELIS WHO ILLEGALLY PROVIDE MILITARY TRAINING ABROAD. THE GOVERNMENT MUST PUT AN END TO THE DISGRACE SOME ISRAELIS CAUSE TO ALL OF US. HERE IS A REPORT BY OUR POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT NATAN GUTMAN:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] THE WEEKLY CABINET SESSION DEALT WITH THE COLOMBIA ISSUE ONLY BRIEFLY. DEFENSE MINISTER YITZHAQ RABIN BRIEFLY REFERRED TO THE ISSUE MAINLY BECAUSE HE WAS ASKED BY OTHER MINISTERS TO DO SO. DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER YITZHAQ NAVON SAID THAT THE GOVERNMENT MUST PUT AN END TO THE DISGRACE CAUSED BY SOME ISRAELIS. DEFENSE MINISTER RABIN MERELY STATED THAT THE WHOLE ISSUE OF THE INVOLVEMENT OF ISRAELIS IN COLOMBIA IS UNDER INVESTIGATION. DEFENSE ELEMENTS MADE CLEAR AT THE MEETING THAT SINCE 1986 THERE HAS BEEN A NEED TO ACQUIRE A SPECIFIC PERMIT FOR ANY SECURITY ACTIVITY BY AN ISRAELI BODY ABROAD. IT WAS FURTHER MADE CLEAR THAT THE HOD HAHANIT [SPEARHEAD] COMPANY DID NOT HAVE SUCH A PERMIT, AND HAS BEEN WARNED NOT TO OPERATE IN COLOMBIA.</p><p>AT THE CONCLUSION OF THE SESSION, CABINET SECRETARY ELYAQIM RUBINSTEIN SAID THAT THE ISRAELI GOVERNMENT DISASSOCIATES ITSELF FROM ANY SUCH ACTIVITY. IT WAS FURTHER STRESSED THAT ISRAEL CONSIDERS THE STRUGGLE AGAINST THE PLAGUE OF INTERNATIONAL DRUGS A VERY IMPORTANT QUEST.</p><p>AS FOR THE SITUATION IN THE TERRITORIES, THE DEFENSE MINISTER EXPLAINED THAT THE FEELING OF A DEADLOCKED POLITICAL PROCESS LEADS TO AN ESCALATION OF THE INTIFADAH [UPRISING]. IT WAS STRESSED THAT THE MASKED MEN CREATE A REAL LEGAL PROBLEM. MINISTER SCIAKI SUGGESTED THAT ORDERS BE ISSUED TO ALLOW SHOOTING AT MASKED MEN IF SUSPICIONS WARRANT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>FINANCE MINISTER SHIM'ON PERES' DRAFT LAW ON STREAMLINING BUREAUCRACY WAS APPROVED TODAY IN THE CABINET BY A LARGE MAJORITY OF 14 TO 2. SHARP EXCHANGES BETWEEN THE FINANCE MINISTER AND SOME LIKUD MINISTERS TOOK PLACE. OUR ECONOMIC CORRESPONDENT YARON KULAS REPORTS:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [KULAS] THE DEBATE ON THE DRAFT LAW ON SLASHING BUREAUCRACY REOPENED THE LOUD DISAGREEMENT BETWEEN THE FINANCE MINISTER AND LIKUD MINISTERS MOSHE NISIM, RONI MILO, AND EHUD OLMERT. ONLY TWO MINISTERS OBJECTED TO THE PROPOSAL: 'EZER WEIZMAN, WHO SAID THAT THE TRUE ECONOMIC PROBLEM TODAY IS THE INTIFADAH; AND ECOLOGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION MINISTER RONI MILO. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>TEN MINISTERS ABSTAINED FROM VOTING. THE PLAN WAS ENDORSED, HOWEVER, BY A LARGE MAJORITY. THE KNESSET WILL CONVENE TO RATIFY THE DRAFT LAW EARLY NEXT WEEK. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>