<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0018"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0018"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0018</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0018</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 12 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] WE ARE RECEIVING A REPORT RIGHT NOW ON THE SITUATION IN SAN SALVADOR. THE REPORT SAYS THAT SAN SALVADOR NEIGHBORHOODS AND RESIDENTIAL AREAS ARE STILL UNDER THE CONTROL OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN]. ARMED FORCES OFFICIAL SOURCES HAVE ADMITTED THAT SOME AREAS OF SAN SALVADOR ARE CONTROLLED BY THE FMLN. THE REPORT ADDS THAT AS OF 2140 ON 12 NOVEMBER, THERE WAS STILL TENSION IN THE CITY.</p><p>SOME SPORADIC SHOOTING WAS STILL HEARD, AND THE SITUATION IN VARIOUS PARTS OF THE CAPITAL CITY INDICATED THAT OUR COMRADES ARE MAINTAINING THEIR POSITIONS, THEY ARE CARRYING OUT MILITARY ENGINEERING TASKS, OPENING TRENCHES, AND SETTING UP BARRICADES WITH THE COOPERATION OF THE SAN SALVADOR PEOPLE.</p><p>PRESS AGENCY REPORTS NOTE THAT THERE IS GREAT TENSION IN THE CAPITAL CITY, AND APPARENTLY THEY ARE EXPECTING [CHANGES THOUGHT] HERE IS A NEWS AGENCY REPORT WHICH SAYS THAT EARLY THIS MORNING, LESS SHOOTING WAS HEARD BECAUSE APPARENTLY EACH SIDE HAD CONSOLIDATED THEIR POSITION. THAT IS WHAT SOME PRESS AGENCIES ARE REPORTING.</p><p>WE HAVE ALSO OBSERVED THAT THE ARMED FORCES HAVE ADMITTED THAT SOME AREAS IN THE CAPITAL CITY ARE CONTROLLED BY THE FMLN. THERE ARE MANY VEHICLES SCATTERED ALL OVER THE STREETS OF SAN SALVADOR. THAT IS THE REPORT WE HAVE RECEIVED FROM SAN SALVADOR, WHERE OUR FIGHTERS IN ZACAMIL AND OTHER NEIGHBORHOODS AND RESIDENTIAL AREAS IN THE CAPITAL CITY ARE NOW RECEIVING THE SUPPORT OF THE PEOPLE WHO ARE FORTIFYING THEMSELVES IN NEIGHBORHOODS.</p><p>WE CALL ON THE SAN SALVADORAN YOUTHS TO GO OUT TONIGHT TO COOPERATE WITH THE FMLN FIGHTERS. MAKE THE ASSASSINS OF MSGR ROMERO PAY DEARLY FOR EVERY STEP THEY TAKE AGAINST THE PEOPLE IN THE NEIGHBORHOODS IN SAN SALVADOR CITY. IT HAS BEEN 24, 25, NEARLY 26 HOURS SINCE THE FMLN FIGHTERS ESTABLISHED THEIR POSITIONS IN SAN SALVADOR IN VIEW OF THE REGIME'S INCOMPETENCE. THE REGIME HAS CLEARLY SAID THAT IT IS INCAPABLE OF CONTROLLING THE SITUATION, AS IT HAS HAD TO DECREE A STATE OF SIEGE THAT BEGAN ON THE EVENING OF 12 NOVEMBER IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>ANOTHER EVIDENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT'S WEAKNESS IS THE GAG PLACED ON THE MEDIA. THE GOVERNMENT HAS NOT ALLOWED THE MEDIA TO BROADCAST ITS NEWSCASTS. WHY DOESN'T THE GOVERNMENT WANT THE PEOPLE TO LISTEN TO NEWSCASTS IN EL SALVADOR? WHAT IS THE CRISTIANI REGIME HIDING? THIS IS A QUESTION THAT THE PEOPLE ARE ASKING; THEY WANT TO KNOW THE ANSWER. THE GOVERNMENT IS AFRAID, IT DOES NOT WANT TO INFORM THE PEOPLE ABOUT THE DEVELOPMENTS OR THE SCOPE OF THE ACTIONS CARRIED OUT BY THE FMLN THROUGHOUT THE NATIONAL TERRITORY.</p><p>COMRADE FIGHTERS: WE HAVE ALREADY TOLD YOU; THIS IS IN THE BAG. YOUR COURAGE AND DETERMINATION TO WIN HAS MADE IT POSSIBLE TO CARRY OUT THE FMLN PLAN AS OUR COMMUNIQUE ISSUED BY THE GENERAL COMMAND HAS SAID.</p><p>COMRADES: KEEP IT UP, KEEP AN OPEN EYE, KEEP UP THE HIGH MORALE AS YOU HAVE DONE UP TO NOW, SEEK CONTACT WITH THE PEOPLE, RECEIVE THEIR COOPERATION IN THE FORTIFICATIONS THAT ARE BEING MADE THROUGHOUT SAN SALVADOR. LET'S GO TO THE TOP AND THAT'S IT.</p></body></html>