<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0006"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0006"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0006</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0006</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 22 APR 90 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI] [TEXT] DEAR RADIO AUDIENCE: FIRST OF ALL, I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR ALLOWING ME TO TALK TO YOU TONIGHT ABOUT A VERY IMPORTANT ISSUE FOR THE FUTURE OF OUR COUNTRY. MANY TIMES YOU HAVE HEARD US MENTION THE WORD SOLIDARITY. WE HAVE ALWAYS USED IT AS A WORD THAT MEANS TO THINK ABOUT THOSE WHO SUFFER THE MOST, THOSE WHO HAVE LESS. INDEED, THOSE ARE THE PEOPLE WE MUST HELP, EVEN WITH OUR OWN SACRIFICE, AND MANY TIMES WITH A HUGE SACRIFICE BY ALL OF US. IF LOVE IS THE BOND THAT UNITES FAMILY MEMBERS, SOLIDARITY SHOULD BE THE GREAT PILLAR, THE CEMENT THAT UNITES SALVADORAN SOCIETY, SO THAT, UNITED, WE MAY FULFILL OUR DESIRE FOR PEACE, TRANQUILITY, HAPPINESS, AND WELL-BEING.</p><p>HOWEVER, TONIGHT ALLOW ME TO GIVE YOU TWO EXAMPLES OF WHAT WE CONSIDER SHOULD BE THE USE OF THE WORD SOLIDARITY AND WHAT THIS WORD MEANS IN MATTERS THAT ARE COMPLETELY DIFFERENT FROM ONE ANOTHER. A FEW WEEKS AGO THE GOVERNMENT WAS FORCED, DUE TO AN INCREASE IN OIL PRICES, TO RAISE THE PRICE OF OIL BYPRODUCTS SUCH AS GASOLINE, DIESEL, AND ALL FUELS. IN THE PAST, THE GOVERNMENT SUBSIDIZED GASOLINE. PERHAPS THE GOVERNMENT DID THIS TO MAKE PEOPLE BELIEVE THIS WOULD HAVE NOTHING BUT POSITIVE EFFECTS. HOWEVER, LET US ANALYZE FOR A WHILE THE ISSUE OF INCREASES IN THE PRICE OF FUEL. WHEN A GOVERNMENT HAS NO MONEY FOR SUBSIDIZING, THAT MEANS THE COST OF LIVING WILL GO UP. THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT PRICES WILL RISE WHEN A GOVERNMENT SPENDS MORE THAN WHAT IT HAS. HOWEVER, LET US SEE HOW THIS ASPECT, OR RATHER THE PRINCIPLE OF SOLIDARITY, APPLIES TO THE INCREASE IN FUEL PRICES, ESPECIALLY THE PRICE OF GASOLINE.</p><p>TEN PERCENT OF ALL FAMILIES IN OUR COUNTRY OWN A VEHICLE. IN GENERAL, THAT 10 PERCENT ARE THOSE WHO HAVE THE MOST; IN OTHER WORDS, THOSE WHO HAVE THE POSSIBILITY OF BUYING A CAR, A VEHICLE. IF WE SUBSIDIZED GASOLINE, WHAT WE WOULD BE DOING IS TAKING MONEY OUT OF A GOVERNMENT THAT, FOR THE TIME BEING, DOES NOT HAVE SUCH FUNDS AVAILABLE. IN ORDER TO GET SUCH FUNDS, THE GOVERNMENT WOULD HAVE TO IMPOSE NEW TAXES WHICH WOULD AFFECT ALL SALVADORANS. THEREFORE, LET US THINK WHETHER OR NOT IT IS FAIR THAT 90 PERCENT OF ALL SALVADORAN FAMILIES, WHO OWN NO VEHICLES, MUST PAY SOME KIND OF TAX IN ORDER TO BENEFIT THE OTHER 10 PERCENT WHO HAVE THE RESOURCES THAT ALLOW THEM TO BUY A VEHICLE.</p><p>WE DO NOT WANT TO APPEAR AS DEMAGOGIC OR POPULIST WITH THIS EXAMPLE. WHAT WE WANT TO SAY IS THAT THOSE OF US WHO OWN A VEHICLE, WHO ARE PART OF THE 10 PERCENT LUCKY ENOUGH TO HAVE SOMETHING AND THUS CAN BUY A VEHICLE, MUST BE IN SOLIDARITY WITH THAT 90 PERCENT WHO HAVE LITTLE AND MANY TIMES NOTHING. THEY HAVE NO VEHICLES, AND THEREFORE HAVE NO REASON TO SUFFER SO THE GASOLINE WE BUY BECOMES CHEAPER. MOREOVER, TO SOME EXTENT THE CURRENT PRICE OF GASOLINE MAKES IT POSSIBLE FOR THE DIESEL SUPPLIED TO URBAN AND INTERURBAN BUS COMPANIES TO BE BOUGHT AT A PRICE THAT WILL ALLOW BUS OWNERS TO MAINTAIN THE CURRENT BUS FARES. THIS IS SOLIDARITY, AND EVEN MORE THAN THAT. THOSE OF US WHO HAVE SOMETHING, WHO OWN A VEHICLE, PAY SOMETHING -- THROUGH THE PRICE OF THE GASOLINE WE CONSUME -- SO THAT THOSE WHO OWN NOTHING AND MUST USE THE PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION BUSES CAN DO SO WITH NO PRICE INCREASE.</p><p>THE SAME SHOULD BE THE CASE FOR THE COST OF LIQUID GAS AND PROPANE GAS, SO THAT THE PRICES OF FOOD COOKED WITH GAS IN THE MARKETPLACES ARE NOT INCREASED. THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF HOW THOSE OF US WHO HAVE SOMETHING CAN SHOW OUR SOLIDARITY WITH THOSE WHO HAVE LITTLE OR NOTHING AT ALL.</p><p>I WOULD NOW LIKE TO TALK ABOUT AN EXAMPLE OF AN EVEN DEEPER KIND OF SOLIDARITY. I WANT TO TALK ABOUT PEACE. SALVADORAN BROTHERS, THIS IS THE TIME WHEN WE MUST SHOW OUR SOLIDARITY WITH THOSE MOTHERS WHO HAVE LOST THEIR SONS. WE MUST SHOW OUR SOLIDARITY WITH THE INNOCENT CHILDREN WHO COULD KICK A MINE AND END UP WITHOUT AN ARM OR A LEG. WE MUST SHOW OUR SOLIDARITY WITH THOSE WHO, BECAUSE OF VIOLENCE, CANNOT FIND A JOB. THAT IS WHY THIS IS THE TIME FOR ALL OF US TO MAKE AN EFFORT TO ACHIEVE PEACE.</p><p>LAST THURSDAY I TOLD YOU I FELT MORE OPTIMISTIC AFTER MEETING WITH THE POLITICAL PARTIES AND LISTENING TO THEIR DECISION TO ACCEPT THE CHALLENGE TO WORK FOR PEACE. THEY ARE DETERMINED TO REACH A CONSENSUS TO FULFILL THE ASPIRATIONS OF ALL SALVADORANS. WE ARE BEGINNING TO SENSE WHAT THE NEAR FUTURE OF EL SALVADOR COULD BE. WE ARE FEELING HAPPY AND OPTIMISTIC. HOWEVER, I REPEAT, THIS IS THE TIME WHEN WE SHOULD ALL CONTRIBUTE TO PEACE.</p><p>ANYTHING THAT MAY LEAD TO VIOLENCE, WHETHER IT IS STREET DISTURBANCES OR BOMBS, SHOULD NOT BE PERMITTED, BECAUSE IT IS NO LONGER CONCEIVABLE FOR MOTHERS, CHILDREN, AND FAMILIES TO CONTINUE TO SUFFER IN OUR COUNTRY. THE TIME HAS COME TO SHOW OUR SOLIDARITY, TO SEARCH, NOT ONLY THROUGH WORDS BUT ALSO THROUGH OUR EXAMPLES AND ACTIONS, FOR THE PEACE THAT OUR COUNTRY AND SALVADORANS DESERVE.</p><p>THEREFORE, OUR SOLIDARITY SHOULD BE THE FUNDAMENTAL TOOL FOR OUR COUNTRY'S RECONSTRUCTION. IT SHOULD BE THE FUNDAMENTAL TOOL FOR THE PHYSICAL AND SPIRITUAL RECONSTRUCTION OF ALL SALVADORANS. WE WANT ALL SALVADORANS, WITHOUT EXCEPTION, TO SUPPORT THE PEACE EFFORTS, SO THAT THOSE WHO SUFFER SO VERY MUCH FROM VIOLENCE WILL NO LONGER SUFFER.</p><p>THIS IS A FUNDAMENTAL STEP FORWARD FOR THE FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. SALVADORAN BROTHERS, LET US SHOW OUR SOLIDARITY IN THIS CRUCIAL TIME IN OUR HISTORY, BECAUSE WE HAVE ALWAYS KNOWN THAT WHEN ALL SALVADORANS ACT POSITIVELY LIKE BROTHERS, WE CAN COME OUT AHEAD. THIS IS ALL FOR TONIGHT. THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH AND MAY GOD BLESS YOU.</p></body></html>