<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0033"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0033"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0033</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0033</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 28 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] FRANCISCO MERINO, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC AND INTERIOR MINISTER, HAS STRONGLY CONDEMNED THE MURDER OF FORMER SUPREME COURT PRESIDENT FRANCISCO JOSE GUERRERO. MERINO DESCRIBED THE CULPRITS AS MURDEROUS BEASTS.</p><p>THE VICE PRESIDENT WENT TO THE MEDICAL-SURGICAL HOSPITAL OF THE SALVADORAN INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY, TO WHICH DR GUERRERO WAS TAKEN AFTER THE ATTACK. GUERRERO, WHO WAS AN ADVISER TO THE GOVERNMENTAL COMMISSION FOR SUPPORT TO THE DIALOGUE [COMISION DE APOYO GUBERNAMENTAL DE DIALOGO], WAS SHOT TO DEATH BY TERRORISTS AT THE INTERSECTION OF BOULEVARD DE LOS HEROES AND ALAMEDA JUAN PABLO II.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MERINO] WHAT THEY ARE SHOWING IS THAT THEY ARE BENT ON CARRYING OUT TOTALLY DESTRUCTIVE ACTIONS TO LOWER THE CONFIDENCE OF THE POPULATION AND TO PROVOKE GENERAL PANIC. I THINK THAT ALTHOUGH AS A GOVERNMENT WE HAVE ALWAYS MAINTAINED A CONCILIATORY POSITION TO ATTAIN PEACE IN EL SALVADOR, WE MUST ALSO MAKE A FIRMER DECISION TO TAKE STRONGER ACTION. THE PEOPLE WHO COMMIT THESE WANTON ACTIONS ARE DERANGED PEOPLE. THEY DO NOT UNDERSTAND WORDS. THEY DO NOT UNDERSTAND THAT THEY MUST RESPECT A LEGAL SYSTEM, OR A DEMOCRATIC PROCESS OR ONE OF HUMANIZATION. THEY ARE SIMPLY BEASTS AND MURDERERS AND MUST BE TREATED AS SUCH. [END RECORDING]</p><p>MERINO SAID THE MURDERERS MUST BE PUNISHED WITH THE FULL WEIGHT OF THE LAWS, AND THAT ONE OF THE TERRORISTS WHO WAS WOUNDED AND CAPTURED AT THE SITE OF THE CRIME IS UNDER INTERROGATION.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [MERINO] ONE OF THE CRIMINALS WAS WOUNDED. THIS WILL OBVIOUSLY ENABLE US TO OBTAIN SOME CLUES AS TO THE IDENTITY OF THE ACTUAL KILLERS AND OF THE MASTERMINDS OF THIS NEW MURDER, WHICH HAS SHOCKED SALVADORAN SOCIETY.</p><p>AS IN PREVIOUS CASES, WE ARE CONDUCTING INVESTIGATIONS IN THIS CASE. HOWEVER, I REPEAT THAT THE TIME HAS COME FOR US TO TAKE A FIRMER STAND, TO DO OUR UTMOST, AND TO REALIZE THAT IF NOTHING HAS HAPPENED TO US THUS FAR, IT DOES NOT MEAN WE WILL NOT FALL VICTIM TO THESE MURDERERS. IT IS BETTER TO TAKE PRECAUTIONS NOW THAN TO HAVE REGRETS LATER. [END RECORDING]</p><p>MERINO SAID THAT THIS CAMPAIGN OF VIOLENCE PROMOTED BY THE TERRORIST HORDES HAS NOT ENDED. CLEAR EVIDENCE OF THIS IS THIS BRUTAL AND COWARDLY MURDER, WHICH HAS AGAIN FILLED THE SUFFERING SALVADORAN PEOPLE WITH SORROW.</p></body></html>