<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0098"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0098"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN JOSE (COSTA RICA)"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0098</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0098</p><p>SAN JOSE (COSTA RICA), 27 SEP 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] THE GUATEMALAN ASSOCIATION OF UNIVERSITY STUDENTS (AEU), WHOSE TOP LEADERS WERE KIDNAPPED, MURDERED, OR HAD TO GO INTO HIDING DURING THE LAST FEW WEEKS, TODAY DEMANDED THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY'S SOLIDARITY TO CONTAIN THE WAVE OF VIOLENCE THAT HAS SHAKEN THE COUNTRY OVER THE LAST 2 MONTHS.</p><p>TWO MEMBERS OF THE AEU COORDINATING BOARD, WHO LAST WEEK WENT INTO EXILE, SAID THAT IT IS URGENT THAT A PERMAMENT UN RAPPORTEUR BE SENT TO GUATEMALA TO CERTIFY THE CONTINUAL AND INCREASING HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE UNIVERSITY STUDENTS ALSO CALLED FOR GOVERNMENTS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS TO SEND DELEGATIONS TO GUATEMALA AS SOON AS POSSIBLE, "TO PRESSURE THE VINICIO CEREZO GOVERNMENT TO STOP THE CAMPAIGN OF TERROR AND THE BLOODBATH BEING PREPARED BY THE ARMY TO CONTAIN THE STUDENT AND PEOPLES' MOVEMENTS."</p><p>THE AEU REPRESENTATIVES SAID THEY HAD EVIDENCE THAT THE RECENT KIDNAPPING OF 12 STUDENT LEADERS, OUT OF WHICH 5 WERE LATER FOUND MURDERED WITH BRUTAL SIGNS OF TORTURE, "WAS DIRECTLY PLANNED AND CARRIED OUT BY THE GUATEMALAN ARMY.</p><p>THESE SAME STUDENTS BELIEVE THAT VINICIO CEREZO'S CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT "KNOWS WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CAMPAIGN OF TERROR, AND IT WILL NOT TAKE ACTION BECAUSE THE GOVERNMENT IS AN ACCOMPLICE OF THE MILITARY."</p><p>THE AEU LEADERS, WHO DID NOT DARE GIVE THEIR NAMES BECAUSE THEIR FAMILIES "COULD SUFFER WORSE CONSEQUENCES IN GUATEMALA," INSISTED THAT "THE ONLY THING REMAINING FOR GUATEMALANS TO FACE THE TERROR AND VIOLENCE IS INTERNATIONAL SOLIDARITY."</p><p>"THE SITUATION IS TERRIBLE. THE HUMAN RIGHTS PROSECUTOR HIMSELF TOLD US THAT HE COULD DO NOTHING TO CONTAIN THIS WAVE OF REPRESSION AND ADVISED US THAT WE BETTER SEEK INTERNATIONAL PRESSURE," ONE OF THE EXILED AEU LEADERS SAID.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THEM, THE WAVE OF REPRESSION OVER THE LAST FEW WEEKS AGAINST GUATEMALAN UNIVERSITY STUDENTS "IS THE WORST SINCE 1978," WHEN NUMEROUS UNIVERSITY LEADERS WERE MURDERED, INCLUDING AEU SECRETARY GENERAL OLIVERIO CASTANEDA, KILLED AT POINT-BLANK RANGE WHILE HEADING A DEMONSTRATION IN THE MIDDLE OF THE CAPITAL.</p><p>CASTANEDA'S MURDER FORCED THE AEU TO ELIMINATE THE POST OF SECRETARY GENERAL AND MODIFY ITS STRATEGIES SO ITS TOP LEADERS WOULD NOT BECOME EASY TARGETS OF REPRESSION. HOWEVER, IN LIGHT OF THE LATEST EVENTS, THESE CHANGES SEEM TO HAVE HAD LITTLE EFFECT.</p><p>"BECAUSE NOW THEY CANNOT IDENTIFY ANY PARTICULAR LEADER TO KILL, LIKE THEY DID WITH OLIVERIO, THIS TIME THEY HAVE ATTACKED US ALL," ONE OF THE BANISHED LEADERS , WHO ARRIVED IN COSTA RICA LAST WEEKEND, SAID.</p><p>SINCE 21 AUGUST, WHEN THE CAMPAIGN OF STUDENT KIDNAPPINGS AND MURDERS BEGAN, OF THE 16 MEMBERS OF THE AEU EXECUTIVE COORDINATING BOARD, THREE WERE MURDERED, SEVEN ARE STILL MISSING, FOUR HAD TO GO INTO HIDING, AND TWO WENT INTO EXILE.</p><p>"I WAS TOLD THROUGH A FRIEND: YOUR TURN IS ON 4 SEPTEMBER. I THEN HAD TO HIDE UNTIL I WAS ABLE TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY," ONE OF THE EXILED TOLD AFP WITH ANGUISH.</p><p>"WE REALLY DID NOT EXPECT THIS. WE THOUGHT WE WERE GOING TO BE POLITICALLY NEUTRALIZED, BUT NEVER THOUGHT THEY WOULD ORDER US KIDNAPPED AND MURDERED," ANOTHER OF THE STUDENTS ADMITTED.</p><p>FOR BOTH LEADERS "THE ARMY'S REPRESSIVE CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE AEU SEEKS TO SCARE THE POPULATION AND STOP THE PEOPLE'S MOVEMENT THAT BECAME MOTIVATED FOLLOWING THE LAST TEACHERS' STRIKE ALL OVER THE COUNTRY."</p><p>HOWEVER, THEY CONCLUDED, "THE ARMY WILL NEVER BE ABLE TO END THE AEU BECAUSE TO DO SO THE ARMY WOULD HAVE TO KIDNAP, MURDER, OR SEND INTO EXILE THE 60,000 SAN CARLOS UNIVERSITY STUDENTS, THE LARGEST AND OLDEST UNIVERSITY IN CENTRAL AMERICA."</p></body></html>