<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0046"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0046"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0046</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0046</p><p>BOGOTA, 27 NOV 89 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [INTERVIEW WITH REPORTER ON THE SCENE BY STUDIO REPORTER] [TEXT] [REPORTER, IN PROGRESS] ... IF THE COLLEAGUES AT THE CENTRAL STUDIO HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE BOGOTA ELECTRICAL ENERGY INSTITUTE EMPLOYEE WHO WAS AT THE SITE OF THE INCIDENT. WE ARE OBSERVING A TERRIBLE SCENE OF DESOLATION AND DEATH BECAUSE ALL THE PASSANGERS GOING TO CALI, VALLE DEL CAUCA DEPARTMENT, DIED. THERE IS NO SINGLE SURVIVOR ACCORDING TO NATIONAL POLICE REPORTS. THEY ARE AWAITING CRIMINAL INSTRUCTION JUDGES. HOWEVER, THE ELECTRICITY COMPANY WORKER MAY ANSWER QUESTIONS POSED BY STUDIO REPORTERS. LATER ON WE WILL HAVE MORE OFFICIAL INFORMATION.</p><p>[STUDIO REPORTER] CAN YOU CONFIRM THE ARRIVAL OF THE POLICE'S BOMB SQUAD? AUTHORITIES FEAR THE CRASH MAY HAVE BEEN CAUSED BY AN EXPLOSION RATHER THAN AN ACCIDENT INSIDE THE AIRPLANE.</p><p>[REPORTER] THE F-2 JUDICIAL POLICE AND CRIMINAL STATISTICS EXPERTS ARE HERE. THEY FEEL THAT THE ACCIDENT MAY HAVE BEEN CAUSED BY A TERRORIST ACTION. THE REMARK WAS MADE BASED ON WITNESS ACCOUNTS. THEY NOTED THAT THIS MAY HAVE BEEN A TERRORIST ATTACK BECAUSE AIRPLANES DO NOT HAVE THIS KIND OF ACCIDENT UNLESS THERE IS AN EXPLOSION, SOMETHING THAT HAS VERY SERIOUS CONSEQUENCES. ACCORDING TO REPORTS BY THE NATIONAL POLICE F-2 EXPERTS, THE AIRPLANE BROKE INTO SIX PIECES. IT IS COMPLETELY DESTROYED, WHICH IS WHY THE 106 PASSENGERS ABOARD ARE STREWN ACROSS AN AREA 6-8 KM WIDE.</p><p>ACCESS TO THE AIRPLANE'S REMAINS IS DIFFICULT BECAUSE THIS IS A MOUNTAINOUS REGION. THE CASQUITO [WORD INDISTINCT] IS THROUGH THE ROAD THAT GOES FROM BOSA, CUNDINAMARCA DEPARTMENT, TO THE SCHOOL [NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED]. AUTHORITIES SAY THAT THIS AREA IS LOCATED VERY CLOSE TO SLUICE NUMBER 3, MUNA 3, WHICH FEEDS WATER TO THE DAM. THE SITUATION IS VERY DIFFICULT AND DRAMATIC. RIGHT NOW, EXPERTS ARE COLLECTING SAMPLES AND TRYING FIND ALL THEY CAN TO LEARN FOR SURE IF THIS WAS A TERRORIST ACTION OR A SERIOUS ACCIDENT CAUSED BY A FLAW IN THE MECHANICAL SYSTEM OF THE HK-1803 AIRPLANE.</p></body></html>