<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0084"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0084"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BEIJING (PRC)"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0084</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0084</p><p>BEIJING (PRC), 16 FEB 90 (SHIJIE ZHISHI) -- [ARTICLE] [SHEN AN] [TEXT] AT THE END OF 1989 AND AT THE BEGINNING OF 1990, THE UNITED STATES CONDUCTED TWO MAJOR MILITARY OPERATIONS IN LATIN AMERICA, TO THE UNANIMOUS CONDEMNATION OF THE NATIONS OF LATIN AMERICA AND OTHER PARTS OF THE WORLD. HOWEVER, THE FIGHTERS FOR "FREEDOM," "DEMOCRACY," AND "HUMAN RIGHTS" IN WESTERN NATIONS HAVE KEPT QUIET OUT OF FEAR OF THE NAKED AGGRESSION AND THE WAY OF THE TYRANT.</p><p>ON 20 DECEMBER 1989, SEVERAL TENS OF THOUSANDS OF U.S. TROOPS, EQUIPPED WITH THE MOST UP-TO-DATE WEAPONS, BRAZENLY INTRUDED INTO PANAMA, TOPPLING THE NORIEGA GOVERNMENT AND FORCING MANUEL ANTONIO NORIEGA TO BE TRIED IN THE UNITED STATES. THIS U.S. ACT WAS BY NO MEANS LESS THAN THE SOVIET ACT OF INVADING CZECHOSLOVAKIA AND KIDNAPPING ITS LEADERS AT THAT TIME. THE NEW PANAMANIAN GOVERNMENT ESTIMATED THAT THE U.S. INVASION HAD RESULTED IN THE DEATHS OF AT LEAST 600 PANAMANIAN SOLDIERS AND CIVILIANS AND MADE SEVERAL TENS OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE HOMELESS. MORE THAN 5,000 MILITARY AND ADMINISTRATIVE PERSONNEL OF THE FORMER GOVERNMENT WERE ARRESTED BY U.S. TROOPS, AND PANAMA SUFFERED ECONOMIC LOSSES OF $10 BILLION. THE UNITED STATES OPENLY MANIPULATED THE WORK OF ESTABLISHING A NEW PANAMANIAN GOVERNMENT, NATIONAL DEFENSE ARMY, POLICE FORCE, AND OTHER STATE APPARATUSES, SO MUCH SO THAT IT RUSHED IN AND RAIDED [AS PUBLISHED] THE EMBASSIES OF OTHER COUNTRIES IN PANAMA OR DIPLOMATIC APARTMENTS, AND DETAINED THE DIPLOMATIC OFFICIALS OF OTHER COUNTRIES. UNDER THE POWERFUL PRESSURE OF WORLD OPINION, SOME OF THE U.S. TROOPS HAVE WITHDRAWN FROM PANAMA, BUT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT STILL REFUSES TO PULL OUT ALL ITS TROOPS.</p><p>JUST AFTER ITS INTRUSION INTO PANAMA, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT IMMEDIATELY ANNOUNCED, AS SCHEDULED, THE DISPATCH OF A STRONG FLEET OF WARSHIPS INTO THE CARIBBEAN, CLOSE TO THE COAST OF COLOMBIA, FOR WHAT WAS CALLED AN ANTIDRUG MANEUVER, INTERCEPTING PLANES AND VESSELS FOR TRAFFICKING IN DRUGS. ON 5 JANUARY THIS YEAR, THE UNITED STATES, IGNORING THE STRONG OPPOSITION OF LATIN AMERICAN NATIONS, ORDERED A FLEET OF FOUR WARSHIPS, INCLUDING THE AIRCRAFT CARRIER "KENNEDY" AND NUCLEAR-PROPELLED CRUISER "VIRGINIA," TO SAIL TOWARD THE CARIBBEAN TO "COMBAT DRUG SMUGGLING." SUCH A HIGH-HANDED WAY OF IGNORING THE SOVEREIGNTY AND WILL OF LATIN AMERICAN NATIONS AND FORCING THE DEPLOYMENT OF TROOPS IN FRONT OF THE GATES OF OTHER COUNTRIES EVOKED FIERCE REACTIONS IN COLOMBIA AND OTHER LATIN AMERICAN NATIONS. JARAMILLO OSSA, A PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE FROM THE COLOMBIAN PATRIOTIC UNION, NOTED THAT THE UNITED STATES "VERY NEARLY" INVADED COLOMBIA. THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT ALSO WARNED THE U.S. GOVERNMENT: WITHOUT THE AUTHORIZATION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT BARCO, NO U.S WARSHIPS ARE ALLOWED TO DRAW NEAR [AS PUBLISHED] THE WATERS OF COLOMBIA. IT ALSO ORDERED ITS NAVAL AND AIR FORCES TO INTENSIFY THEIR SEA PATROLS TO SAFEGUARD THE COUNTRY'S SOVEREIGNTY. AT THE SAME TIME, THE GOVERNMENTS OF COLOMBIA, VENEZUELA, AND SOME OTHER NATIONS REFUSED TO JOIN THE PROPOSED U.S. "DRUG-FIGHTING DRILL" IN THE CARIBBEAN. FACED WITH SUCH A SITUATION, THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION HAD TO ORDER THE "DRUG-FIGHTING FLEET" TO RETURN TO BASE AND CANCEL THE "DRILL."</p><p>ON THE AFOREMENTIONED ACTS OF THE UNITED STATES, LEADERS OF SOME LATIN AMERICAN NATIONS COMMENTED: WHILE RELAXING THE TENSION WITH THE SOVIET UNION, THE UNITED STATES HAS RESERVED THE "RIGHT" TO INTERFERE BY FORCE IN LATIN AMERICA AND OTHER SMALL AND WEAK COUNTRIES. THE PUBLIC MEDIA OF SOME NATIONS SOLEMNLY POINTED OUT: SUCH MOVES OF U.S. AGGRESSION ARE THE CONTINUATION OF THE CONSISTENT U.S. POLICY OF INTERFERING IN THE AFFAIRS OF LATIN AMERICA AND ALSO THE EXTENSION OF WHAT IS CALLED THE REAGAN DOCTRINE, WHICH STARTED IN THE EARLY 1980'S.</p><p>IN U.S. RELATIONS WITH LATIN AMERICA THROUGHOUT THE DECADE OF THE 1980'S, THERE WAS A PROBLEM AFFECTING THE SITUATION AS A WHOLE, NAMELY, THE ISSUE OF CENTRAL AMERICA, WHICH HAD ALL ALONG BEEN LISTED IN THE CATEGORY OF EAST-WEST CONFRONTATION BY THE UNITED STATES. THE REAGAN ADMINISTRATION EVEN GAVE TOP PRIORITY TO MEETING THE CRISIS IN CENTRAL AMERICA IN ITS FOREIGN POLICY.</p><p>IN 1981, WHEN REAGAN ENTERED THE WHITE HOUSE, THE SITUATION IN CENTRAL AMERICA STOOD AS FOLLOWS: THE SANDINISTA REVOLUTION HAD WON VICTORY IN NICARAGUA, THE GUERRILLA WAR IN EL SALVADOR WAS ESCALATING, AND A TURBULENT SITUATION HAD STARTED TO EMERGE IN OTHER CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES. THE HUMAN RIGHTS DIPLOMACY PURSUED BY THE CARTER ADMINISTRATION RESULTED IN THE DETERIORATION OF U.S. RELATIONS WITH A CERTAIN NUMBER OF LATIN AMERICAN NATIONS RULED BY JUNTAS. IN 1977 THE CARTER ADMINISTRATION SIGNED THE PANAMA CANAL TREATY WITH THE PANAMANIAN GOVERNMENT, AGREEING TO RETURN TO PANAMA SOVEREIGNTY OVER THE CANAL AND THE CANAL ZONE. BEFORE THE VICTORY OF THE NICARAGUA REVOLUTION, IN 1979 THE CARTER ADMINISTRATION ABANDONED ITS SUPPORT FOR THE TYRANNICAL SOMOSA REGIME AND ESTABLISHED NORMAL RELATIONS WITH THE SANDINISTA REGIME. [SENTENCE AS PUBLISHED] [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>