<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0064"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0064"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0064</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0064</p><p>BOGOTA, 11 SEP 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] COLOMBIAN JUSTICE MINISTER MONICA DE GREIFF BRIEFED PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO TODAY ON HER OFFICIAL VISIT TO THE UNITED STATES TO ASK FOR HELP IN THE FIGHT AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>THE 32-YEAR-OLD COLOMBIAN MINISTER RETURNED LAST NIGHT ABOARD A COMMERCIAL FLIGHT FROM WASHINGTON, WHERE SHE HAD TRAVELED ON 25 AUGUST WITH HER FAMILY AMID STRONG RUMORS THAT SHE WOULD NOT RETURN TO COLOMBIA AND THAT SHE WOULD RESIGN FROM THE POST SHE HAS HELD SINCE 16 JULY.</p><p>JUSTICE MINISTRY SOURCES SAID TODAY THAT DE GREIFF "IS MAINTAINING HER HEAVY AGENDA" AND ADDED THAT "NOTHING HAS BEEN SAID ABOUT HER LEAVING THE COUNTRY SOON."</p><p>THE RUMORS ABOUT HER IMMINENT RESIGNATION BECAUSE OF THE THREATS AGAINST HER AND HER FAMILY, INCLUDING HER 3-YEAR-OLD SON, MIGUEL JOSE, HAVE STOPPED WITH HER RETURN TO BOGOTA.</p><p>ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL SOURCES, MONICA DE GREIFF'S VISIT TO WASHINGTON WAS TO EXPLAIN "THE DIFFICULT SITUATION IN WHICH THE COLOMBIAN JUDICIAL BRANCH CARRIES OUT ITS DANGEROUS JOB."</p><p>PART OF THE $65 MILLION IN AID THE UNITED STATES HAS PROMISED TO COLOMBIA TO FIGHT DRUG TRAFFICKING HAS ALREADY ARRIVED IN THE COUNTRY. IT INCLUDES BULLETPROOF VESTS, ARMORED AUTOMOBILES, AND COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT FOR JUDGES AND OFFICIALS OF THE JUDICIAL BRANCH.</p><p>THE COLOMBIAN JUSTICE MINISTER, WHO STUDIED LAW AT BOGOTA'S UNIVERSITY OF EL ROSARIO AND IN THE UNITED STATES, WILL MEET WITH THE PRESS TOMORROW AFTER HAVING PRESENTED HER REPORT ON HER TRIP.</p><p>SO FAR THIS YEAR THREE JUDGES WHO WERE IN CHARGE OF CASES AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKERS HAVE BEEN KILLED. IN THIS DECADE, 200 PEOPLE, INCLUDING JUDGES AND ATTORNEYS, HAVE BEEN KILLED BY DRUG TRAFFICKERS.</p></body></html>