<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0048"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0048"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0048</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0048</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 19 APR 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] SALVADORAN PRESIDENT-ELECT ALFREDO CRISTIANI CONDEMNED THE TERRORIST KILLING OF ATTORNEY GENERAL ROBERTO GARCIA ALVARADO AND ACCUSED THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN) OF THE CRIME.</p><p>LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY PRESIDENT RICARDO VALDIVIESO AND VICE PRESIDENT-ELECT FRANCISCO MERINO ALSO DECLARED THAT THE DEATH OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL WAS CAUSED BY WHAT VALDIVIESO TERMED THE GUERRILLAS' "IRRATIONAL VIOLENCE."</p><p>GARCIA ALVARADO, 56, WAS KILLED WHEN A BOMB PLACED BY URBAN GUERRILLAS ON HIS VEHICLE EXPLODED AS IT CAME TO A HALT AT AN INTERSECTION IN DOWNTOWN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>"WE HAVE TO CONDEMN THIS INCIDENT, IT IS A GUERRILLA ACT," ALFREDO CRISTIANI, NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA) PRESIDENT-ELECT, WHO WILL REPLACE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRAT JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE ON 1 JUNE, STATED.</p><p>CRISTIANI SAID THAT "THESE ARE THE RISKS FACED BY SOMEONE WHO ENFORCES THE LAW." HE NOTED THAT "THE GUERRILLAS' IRRATIONAL ATTITUDE MAKES IT INCREASINGLY DIFFICULT TO BELIEVE THEY WANT PEACE."</p><p>ACCORDING TO CRISTIANI, THE ATTACK TOOK PLACE BECAUSE ATTORNEY GENERAL GARCIA ALVARADO WARNED THAT "HE WOULD TAKE MEASURES AGAINST URBAN TERRORISTS."</p><p>VICE PRESIDENT-ELECT FRANCISCO MERINO SAID THAT WHEN THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S CAR STOPPED AT A LIGHT ON A STREET IN DOWNTOWN SAN SALVADOR, AN INDIVIDUAL PLACED A BOMB ON THE ROOF OF THE ARMORED VEHICLE.</p><p>"THE DRIVER TOLD THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ABOUT THE BOMB. THE VEHICLE SWERVED AND THE BOMB EXPLODED, CAUSING THE TOP OF THE VEHICLE TO COLLAPSE ON THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S HEAD," MERINO STATED.</p><p>GUERRILLAS ATTACKED MERINO'S HOME IN SAN SALVADOR 5 DAYS AGO WITH EXPLOSIVES. THERE WERE SEVEN CHILDREN, INCLUDING FOUR OF THE VICE PRESIDENT'S CHILDREN, IN THE HOME AT THE TIME. A 15-YEAR-OLD NIECE OF MERINO'S WAS INJURED.</p><p>"THESE INCIDENTS," CRISTIANI SAID, "FRANKLY CAUSE US TO BECOME MORE AWARE OF THE FACT THAT WE MUST NOT PERMIT TERRORIST ACTIONS TO OCCUR IN EL SALVADOR."</p><p>THE PRESIDENT-ELECT RULED OUT THE POSSIBILITY THAT THESE ATTACKS "WILL PREVENT THE INAUGURAL CEREMONY FROM TAKING PLACE."</p><p>"I AM CERTAIN THAT THE INAUGURATION WILL BE ON 1 JUNE. WE WILL NOT JUMP OVERBOARD OR MAKE A RUN FOR IT. WE KNOW WHAT WE ARE UP AGAINST AND WILL GO ON," HE STATED.</p><p>CRISTIANI SAID THE GUERRILLA ATTACKS ARE INTENDED TO PROMPT A GOVERNMENT AND MILITARY REACTION SO THE FMLN CAN "EXPLOIT IT" ABROAD TO "POLITICALLY ISOLATE THE NEW GOVERNMENT."</p><p>RICARDO VALDIVIESO, PRESIDENT OF THE LEGISLATIVE ASSSEMBLY AND AN ARENA LEADER, SAID THE FMLN AND ITS "FRONT" GROUPS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE "IRRATIONAL VIOLENCE THAT KILLED ATTORNEY GENERAL GARCIA."</p><p>VALDIVIESO SAID THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY WILL APPROVE DRASTIC LAWS TO "HALT THE WAVE OF VIOLENCE." HE SAID THE ATTORNEY GENERAL "WAS APOLITICAL, WORKED FOR JUSTICE, AND DID NOT DESERVE TO DIE LIKE THAT."</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE POLICE AND GARCIA ALVARADO'S DRIVER, WHO ESCAPED UNSCATHED, THE ATTORNEY GENERAL WAS TRAVELING WITH TWO BODYGUARDS. ONE OF THEM WAS INJURED.</p><p>THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S BODY WAS DESTROYED BY THE BOMB THAT EXPLODED OVER HIS HEAD.</p><p>NO GROUP HAS CLAIMED CREDIT FOR THE ATTACK YET, BUT POLICE SOURCES CLAIM IT "IS CHARACTERISTIC OF THE FMLN URBAN COMMANDOS."</p><p>THE SAME SOURCES CONFIRMED THAT GARCIA ALVARADO HAD BEEN THREATENED ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS BY SALVADORAN URBAN GUERRILLAS.</p><p>MOMENTS AFTER THE ATTACK, ARMY AND POLICE UNITS CORDONED OFF THE AREA AND BEGAN AN ALL-OUT MILITARY OPERATION TO FIND THOSE RESPONSIBLE.</p><p>GARCIA ALVARADO, FATHER OF SIX, WAS APPOINTED ATTORNEY GENERAL ON 23 DECEMBER 1988. HE WAS CONSIDERED TO BE CLOSELY LINKED TO ARENA. ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS, HOWEVER, HE SAID HE DID NOT REPRESENT ANY PARTY AND WAS CARRYING OUT HIS JOB "IMPARTIALLY AND WITH THE INTENTION OF ENFORCING THE COUNTRY'S LAWS."</p></body></html>