<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0038"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0038"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0038</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0038</p><p>SANTIAGO, 14 DEC 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [STATEMENT] [HERNAN BUCHI, IN PROGRESS] [TEXT] UNFORTUNATELY MARRED BY A CARABINERO'S ASSASSINATION, WE HAVE RETURNED TO DEMOCRACY. PATRICIO AYLWIN HAS BEEN ELECTED PRESIDENT OF CHILE. I CONGRATULATE HIM AND HIS FOLLOWERS, AND I WISH HIM SUCCESS IN HIS GOVERNMENT, FOR THE GOOD OF CHILE AND CHILEANS. HIS TRIUMPH IS NOT A DEFEAT FOR OUR IDEAS. MY CAMPAIGN WAS CONSTANTLY FOCUSED ON THE IDEA OF FREEDOM -- BOTH POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC -- PRIVATE PROPERTY, AND THE SOCIAL MARKET ECONOMY. IT HAD TO BE THIS WAY BECAUSE THIS IS THE FUTURE CHILEANS WANT, AND IF OUR IDEAS GAIN GROUND, THAT IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN THE NAME OF THE MAN CHARGED WITH IMPLEMENTING THEM.</p><p>BUT THOSE IDEAS MUST BE DISSEMINATED EVEN MORE WITH INCESSANT WORK. IN A DEMOCRACY, THE OPPOSITION ALSO GOVERNS. HISTORY HAS PLACED US IN THE CONSTRUCTIVE OPPOSITION FOR THE NEXT 4 YEARS. WE WILL BE WILLING TO COOPERATE FOR THE GOOD OF THE COUNTRY, BUT WE WILL STAY ALERT TO DEFEND OUR VISION OF THE FUTURE. I AM CONVINCED THAT AN INTELLIGENT OPPOSITION CAN DO MUCH FOR THE COUNTRY, PARTICULARLY IF THAT OPPOSITION IS BACKED BY THE NEARLY 2 MILLION PEOPLE WHO TODAY SUPPORTED MY CANDIDACY.</p><p>THE WORK THAT LIES AHEAD WILL TO A LARGE EXTENT BE CARRIED OUT IN CONGRESS. THE INFORMATION NOW AVAILABLE SUGGESTS THAT THE PACT FOR DEMOCRACY AND PROGRESS HAS GAINED A VALUABLE REPRESENTATION IN BOTH HOUSES OF CONGRESS. LET MY CONGRATULATIONS GO TO THE FUTURE DEPUTIES AND SENATORS OF DEMOCRACY AND PROGRESS. I SEIZE THIS OCCASION TO LET THEM KNOW THAT THEY CAN COUNT ON MY SUPPORT.</p><p>I AM SATISFIED WITH THE NUMBER OF VOTES I WON, CONSIDERING THE UNFAVORABLE CIRCUMSTANCES. I AM SATISFIED WITH THE ENTHUSIASTIC AND GENEROUS WORK CARRIED OUT BY MY ELECTORAL STAFF AND BY THE POLITICAL PARTIES. I THANK THEM FOR THEIR SUPPORT. I WANT TO ESPECIALLY THANK EACH OF THE MEN AND WOMEN WHO VOTED FOR ME. TO THE MILLIONS OF CHILEAN MEN AND WOMEN WHO IN SUNSHINE OR RAIN THROUGHOUT CHILE FILLED UP STADIUMS, PLAZAS, AND STREETS, CHANTING OUT SLOGANS FOR THE FUTURE; TO THOSE WHO SAW THE STREET WITH THE SYMBOL OF THE STAR OF HOPE; TO THOSE WHO PASTED MY PICTURE ON WALLS, WINDOWS, AND NOTEBOOKS; TO THOSE WHO ENCOURAGED ME IN THIS TIRESOME BUT MOVING CAMPAIGN WITH AN EMBRACE, A HANDSHAKE, OR A SMILE; TO ALL THOSE I WANT TO EXPRESS MY DEEPEST THANKS. I WILL KEEP THEM IN MY HEART FOR THE REST OF MY LIFE.</p><p>WHEN WE INITIATED THIS PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN -- AN HONOR THAT YOU KNOW I NEVER SOUGHT -- I TOLD MY FOLLOWERS THAT JUST LIKE CLIMBING A MOUNTAIN, THERE WERE MOMENTS OF ADVANCE, FATIGUE, AND FALLS, BUT I TRUSTED THAT, MUSTERING ALL OUR ENERGY, WE WOULD OUTDO OURSELVES AND REACH THE SUMMIT. I AM SATISFIED BECAUSE I BELIEVE THAT EACH ONE OF US, AS INDIVIDUALS AND AS A POLITICAL FORCE, HAVE OUTDONE OURSELVES AND CLIMBED A LON WAY UP THE MOUNTAIN, BATTLING FOR OUR IDEAS AND FOR VOTES. WE DID NOT REACH THE SUMMIT, TRUE, BUT THIS MUST NOT DISMAY US. TODAY WE ARE CLOSER TO THE SUMMIT THAN WHEN WE STARTED. THANK YOU VERY MUCH, EVERYONE. GOOD NIGHT.</p></body></html>