<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0068"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0068"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0068</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0068</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 19 AUG 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] FIRE DEPARTMENT SOURCES REPORTED TODAY THAT GUATEMALAN ARMY TROOPS KILLED NINE PEASANTS BY MISTAKE ON 17 AUGUST. THE SOLDIERS MISTOOK THE PEASANTS, WHO WERE CIVIL SELF-DEFENSE PATROL (PAC) MEMBERS, WITH A REBEL COLUMN.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE SAME SOURCE, MILITARY OFFICIALS HAVE STATED THAT THE INCIDENT, WHERE THREE PEASANTS WERE ALSO WOUNDED, HAD BEEN A "TRAGIC MISTAKE."</p><p>THE INCIDENT TOOK PLACE WHEN NORTHEASTERN COBAN BASE TROOPS MISTOOK THE CIVILIAN PATROL FOR A REBEL COLUMN AND ATTACKED IT. THE ATTACK RESULTED IN 9 INDIAN PEASANTS KILLED AND 3 WOUNDED, INCLUDING A 17-YEAR-OLD.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE INFORMATION SUPPLIED BY THE COBAN FIRE DEPARTMENT, THE INCIDENT TOOK PLACE WHEN A PAC PATROL WAS COMBING THE AREA FOR A REBEL COLUMN THAT HAD BEEN SEEN IN "LA PROVIDENCIA" FARMING COMMUNITY AREA.</p><p>THE CIVILIAN PATROL WAS RETURNING TO ITS COMMUNITY ON 17 AUGUST, WHEN THE ARMY TROOPS, WHO WERE ALSO SEARCHING FOR THE REBEL COLUMN, FIRED AT THEM BELIEVING THEY WERE PART OF A REBEL GROUP.</p><p>THE CIVILIAN PATROL UNIT, APPROXIMATELY 70 PERSONS, DID NOT FIRE BACK AT THE SOLDIERS. ACCORDING TO THE ACCOUNT GIVEN BY ONE OF THE SURVIVORS, THE CIVILIANS SHOUTED AND MADE SIGNS TO THE TROOPS UNTIL, FINALLY, THE SOLDIERS REALIZED THEIR ERROR. THE SOLDIERS, HOWEVER, REALIZED THEIR MISTAKE ONLY AFTER NINE CIVILIANS HAD BEEN KILLED.</p><p>GUATEMALAN DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL HECTOR ALEJANDRO GRAMAJO WAS QUERIED ABOUT THE INCIDENT. HE SAID IT WAS CAUSED BY "REGRETTABLE CONFUSION" AND THAT AN ARMY COMMAND STAFF COMMISSION HAD ALREADY BEEN SENT TO INVESTIGATE IT.</p><p>GRAMAJO SAID THE COMMISSION IS TO ESTABLISH HOW THE INCIDENT OCCURRED, BUT ADMITTED THAT INITIAL REPORTS INDICATE THAT THERE HAD BEEN CONFUSION BETWEEN ARMY AND PAC UNITS.</p><p>THE MILITARY CHIEF SAID: "THE INFORMATION WE HAVE UP TO NOW IS CONFUSING AS BOTH THE ARMY AND PAC HAD MOVED MEN BECAUSE THERE WERE REPORTS THAT A REBEL UNIT WAS IN THE AREA."</p></body></html>