<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0005"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0005"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0005</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0005</p><p>SANTIAGO, 20 MAR 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [CHILEAN PRESIDENT AUGUSTO PINOCHET] [TEXT] FELLOW COUNTRYMEN: I AM ADDRESSING YOU AFTER OUR COUNTRY HAS BEGUN TO OVERCOME, WITH EFFORT AND TENACITY, THE FIRST OBSTACLES OF A SERIOUS CRISIS, THE FUTURE IMPLICATIONS AND REPERCUSSIONS OF WHICH WE STILL DO NOT KNOW. I THEREFORE WANTED TO CONVEY A MESSAGE OF HOPE AND ENCOURAGEMENT TO EVERY CHILEAN, TO SHOW THEM MY FEELINGS AT THIS TIME OF DEEP REFLECTION.</p><p>FROM THE VERY MOMENT I LEARNED ABOUT THIS TERRORIST ECONOMIC AGGRESSION, I ORDERED THE CREATION OF FOUR MINISTERIAL COMMISSIONS TO TACKLE THE PROBLEM. I ALSO SENT TWO MINISTERS TO THE UNITED STATES TO MEET WITH U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS. AFTER TIRING SESSIONS OF TALKS, THESE MINISTERS MANAGED TO OVERCOME A SUBSTANTIAL PART OF THE GRAPE PROBLEM. THE PROBLEM AFFECTING OTHER FRUITS REMAINS TO BE SOLVED.</p><p>THIS NEW ATTACK AGAINST THE CHILEAN NATION, AN ATTACK THAT DESTINY HAS PLACED IN THE NATION'S PATH OF FREEDOM, PROGRESS, AND WELL-BEING, COMPELS US TO CLOSE RANKS BEHIND THE GOVERNMENT, UNIFIED AND READY TO FIGHT -- WITH COURAGE AND HIGH SPIRIT -- THE PROBLEM THAT FACES US.</p><p>ON THIS OCCASION THE COUNTRY HAS SEEN HOW THE COUNTLESS THREATS TO BOYCOTT THE NATIONAL ECONOMY HAVE WORKED. MOST OF THE TIME SUCH THREATS HAVE BEEN PROMOTED BY CERTAIN POLITICIANS, LABOR LEADERS, OR COMMUNIST LABOR UNIONS, BOTH AT HOME AND ABROAD. THEY ARE THE ONES WHO -- DRIVEN BY PERSONAL OR IDEOLOGICAL INTEREST -- HAVE CONTINUALLY JEOPARDIZED THE STABILITY OF WORKERS, OF FAMILIES, AND OF THOSE WHOM THEY DEMAGOGICALLY CALL THEIR FELLOW COUNTRYMEN. THEY DO NOT CARE IF THEY CAUSE UNEMPLOYMENT, POVERTY, AND HUNGER TO 500,000 FELLOW CITIZENS WHO WORK IN THIS AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY.</p><p>HOW SHAMELESSLY THEY MAKE CLAIMS AND DEMANDS, OFFERING THEIR SUPPORT AND THEIR SOLIDARITY WHEN CHILE IS SERIOUSLY THREATENED! YET WHEN THE DANGER IS OVER, THEY CHANGE THEIR ATTITUDE AND AGAIN LEVEL CHARGES AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT AND CRITICIZE ITS ACTIONS. IN DOING THAT THEY FAIL TO RECALL THAT FROM ITS VERY BEGINNING THE CHILEAN NATION HAS BEEN BUILT UPON NON-NEGOTIABLE PRINCIPLES BECAUSE THEY ARE THE ESSENCE OF THE NATIONAL SOUL.</p><p>GENTLEMEN: OUR WILL IS BASED ON OUR FEELING OF UNITY IN THE FACE OF ADVERSITY, WHETHER FROM THE ACTION OF NATURE OR FROM THE ACTION OF TREACHEROUS, DISTURBED MINDS THAT RECOGNIZE NO MORAL VALUES, FATHERLAND, OR LAW.</p><p>CHILEANS: A FEW DAYS AGO I REPORTED ON THE STEPS FORWARD IN THE INSTITUTIONALIZATION PROCESS AND ON THE PROGRESS THAT OUR COUNTRY HAS MADE IN ALL FIELDS.</p><p>THE FACT THAT CYANIDE HAS BEEN INJECTED INTO TWO EXPORTED GRAPES HAS CAUSED INCALCULABLE DAMAGE TO THE ECONOMY; IT HAS ALSO BROUGHT THE SHADOW OF ANGUISH AND UNCERTAINTY TO THOUSANDS OF HOMES OF FELLOW COUNTRYMEN WHOSE JOBS AND, CONSEQUENTLY, THEIR LEGITIMATE RIGHT TO A LIVELIHOOD HAVE BEEN DRAMATICALLY JEOPARDIZED. IT IS UNFORTUNATE THAT SOME OFFICIALS OF IMPORTING COUNTRIES, WITHOUT WEIGHING THE TRUE EFFECTS OF THIS TYPE OF MEASURE, HAVE RESTRICTED THE IMPORT OF CHILEAN FRUITS, THUS PROVOKING FEAR AND DISTRUST ON THE INTERNATIONAL CONSUMER MARKET. GENTLEMEN, WE MUST REVERSE THIS SITUATION.</p><p>WE SHOULD ONCE AGAIN ACT IN A UNITED MANNER TO RECOVER INTERNATIONAL CONFIDENCE AND OUR UNDISPUTED LEADERSHIP AS EXPORTERS. I AM SURE THAT WE WILL SUCCEED WITH A NEW JOINT EFFORT. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>