<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0026"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0026"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0026</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0026</p><p>BOGOTA, 26 APR 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE EXTRADITABLES, THE ARMED BRANCH OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, DENIED TODAY IN A TELEPHONE CALL TO A RADIO STATION BY AN ALLEGED MEMBER, ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE DEATH OF CARLOS PIZARRO, POLITICAL LEADER AND FORMER GUERRILLA COMMANDER.</p><p>THE CALLER IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AS JOHN JAIRO ARIAS TASCON. HE CALLED THE CARACOL NETWORK IN MEDELLIN TO DENOUNCE THAT THE CHARGES AGAINST THE MEDELLIN CARTEL ARE PART OF A PLAN TO BLAME THEM FOR ALL VIOLENT ACTIONS IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE AUTHORS OF THE ASSASSINATION ARE SECTORS WHO SEEK TO DESTABILIZE THE COUNTRY, ARIAS TASCON ADDED.</p><p>PIZARRO, FORMER LEADER OF THE 19 APRIL MOVEMENT (M-19), THE GUERRILLA GROUP THAT LAID DOWN ITS WEAPONS ON 9 MARCH, WAS KILLED BY THE IMPACT OF THREE BULLETS FIRED AT HIM ABOARD A COLOMBIAN AVIANCA FLIGHT THAT WAS EN ROUTE TO THE CITY OF BARRANQUILLA ALONG THE COUNTRY'S ATLANTIC COAST.</p><p>AFTER THE CRIME, AT 1100 (1600 GMT), AN INDIVIDUAL WHO IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AS SAPATOCA CALLED CARACOL TO REPORT THAT THE KILLING HAD BEEN ORDERED BY FIDEL CASTANO AND HENRY PEREZ, HEADS OF THE EXTREME RIGHTIST PARAMILITARY MILITIAS.</p><p>SAPATOCA ADDED THAT CASTANO AND PEREZ PERPETRATED THE CRIME FOLLOWING ORDERS FROM THE EXTRADITABLES.</p><p>CASTANO WAS CONNECTED TO THE DEATH OF BERNARDO JARAMILLO, ALSO A PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE, FOR THE LEFTIST PATRIOTIC UNION (UP), ON 22 MARCH, ALTHOUGH AT THAT TIME IT WAS REPORTED THAT CASTANO HEADED A PARAMILITARY ORGANIZATION THAT DID NOT IMPLICATE THE EXTRADITABLES.</p><p>ON THAT OCCASION PABLO ESCOBAR, LEADER OF THE EXTRADITABLES AND THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, DENIED THAT THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS HAD KILLED JARAMILLO.</p><p>A CONFIDENTIAL REPORT DRAFTED RECENTLY BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY (DAS, COLOMBIAN SECRET POLICE), SAID THAT SOME ARMY AND POLICE MEMBERS COOPERATE WITH CASTANO'S CRIMINAL ORGANIZATION.</p><p>NAVARRO WOLFF, NUMBER TWO LEADER OF M-19, TOLD NEWSMEN TODAY AFTER PIZARRO WAS KILLED THAT HIS BURIAL MUST BE ATTENDED BY ALL THE COUNTRY, BECAUSE WE MUST REPUDIATE CRIME SUCH AS THIS.</p><p>NAVARRO WOLFF SAID THAT PIZARRO'S DEATH SHOWS THAT THE COUNTRY IS IN TURMOIL AND THAT IT WILL BE VERY DIFFICULT TO REBUILD THE COUNTRY. THERE IS NO SPACE EXCEPT FOR PAIN AND FOR IRE, HE ADDED.</p><p>THE BURIAL OF CARLOS MUST BE PEACEFUL, AS WAS M-19'S EXAMPLE OF PEACE GIVEN TO THE COUNTRY, HE ADDED.</p><p>IT IS HARD TO EXPLAIN HOW THINGS SUCH AS THIS OCCUR WHEN THE M-19 AND CARLOS PIZARRO WERE SETTING AN EXAMPLE OF PRUDENCE, TOLERANCE, AND UNDERSTANDING, NAVARRO SAID.</p><p>PIZARRO, A FORMER GUERRILLA COMMANDER WHO LED HIS ARMED GROUP TOWARD DEMOBILIZATION AFTER 17 MONTHS OF POLITICAL NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF VIRGILIO BARCO, TOLD NEWSMEN BEFORE BOARDING THE AIRCRAFT: WE ARE DOING WELL. THIS WAS A REFERENCE TO THE M-19 ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN.</p><p>PIZARRO STATED IN HIS LAST PUBLIC STATEMENT: I AM CERTAIN THAT WE WILL KNOW HOW TO WAGE OPPOSITION. WE WILL ENGAGE IN A VERY PRETTY DEMOCRATIC PLAY WITH REGARD TO THE NEXT GOVERNMENT. WE WILL PARTICIPATE IN BUILDING NEW COLOMBIAN DEMOCRACY.</p><p>THE M-19 PARTICIPATED FOR THE FIRST TIME IN THE 11 MARCH ELECTIONS, BECOMING THE THIRD POLITICAL FORCE IN BOGOTA.</p><p>NOTHING HAS BEEN SAID YET CONCERNING THE BURIAL OF PIZARRO, WHO WAS BORN 39 YEARS AGO IN CARTAGENA DE INDIAS AND WHO LEAVES THREE ORPHAN DAUGHTERS, AGED 12, 9, AND 4.</p></body></html>