<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0074"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0074"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0074</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0074</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [REPORT] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE MAIN REASON FOR COMING UP WITH THIS VERSION WAS TO [WORDS INDISTINCT] MASTERMINDS OF THE CRIME [WORDS INDISTINCT] TO FIND OUT WHO THE PERPETRATORS WERE. WITH THIS VERSION, CRISTIANI AND THE HIGH COMMAND ARE TRYING TO COME UP WITH EXTENUATING CIRCUMSTANCES FOR THE TRIAL AND TO PLACE THE RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ASSASSINATION OF THE JESUITS ON MID-LEVEL MILITARY OFFICERS. THE COLONELS WHO WERE INVOLVED IN THE CRIME COULD BE SET FREE AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITY WOULD ONLY BE RELATED TO THE FACT THAT THE CRIME WAS COMMITTED WITHIN AN AREA UNDER THEIR COMMAND.</p><p>THIS VERSION OF THE CRIME IS AIMED AT LEAVING THE ARMED FORCES HIGH COMMAND FREE FROM ANY RESPONSIBILITY AND TO ONLY SLIGHTLY TOUCH THE MEMBERS OF LA TANDONA, ESPECIALLY COL ORLANDO CEPEDA, WHO WAS THE ONE WHO SIGNED THE ORDER TO ASSASSINATE THE JESUITS, AND COL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHIEF OF STAFF. COL GUILLERMO BENAVIDES, WHO IS A MEMBER OF LITTLE IMPORTANCE WITHIN LA TANDONA, WAS INDIRECTLY INVOLVED IN THE CRIME.</p><p>HOWEVER, THE [WORD INDISTINCT] IS SELF-EVIDENT. THE DECISION TO CARRY OUT AN OPERATION TO KILL POPULAR AND RELIGIOUS DEMOCRATIC LEADERS WAS MADE BY THE GENERAL STAFF OF THE ARMED FORCES [WORDS INDISTINCT] 4 DAYS AFTER THE FMLN OFFENSIVE BEGAN. THIS OPERATION WAS PART OF A COMPLETE COUNTEROFFENSIVE PLAN OF THE ARMED FORCES, WHICH INCLUDED THE MASSIVE USE OF ALL THE FIREPOWER OF THE AIR FORCE AGAINST POOR NEIGHBORHOODS AND THE KILLING OF DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S MOVEMENT AND CHURCH LEADERS.</p><p>ALFREDO CRISTIANI, WHO WAS TAKEN TO THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE GENERAL STAFF FOR SECURITY REASONS AND ASSUMED CONTROL OF THE DEFENSE PLAN, WAS FULLY AWARE OF THE GENOCIDE PLAN. U.S. OFFICERS AND ADVISERS WERE ALSO AT THE GENERAL STAFF HEADQUARTERS AT THE TIME TO DISCUSS AND APPROVE THIS GENOCIDE PLAN.</p><p>THE PLAN WAS IMPLEMENTED ON THE EVENING OF 16 NOVEMBER. ALL LABOR UNION OFFICES IN SAN SALVADOR WERE LOOTED. THE OFFICES OF HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS, POLITICAL PARTIES, AND RELIGIOUS CENTERS WERE ALSO LOOTED.</p><p>THE PLAN WAS IMPLEMENTED AT THE INSTALLATIONS OF THE UCA. THE DAYS THAT FOLLOWED SAW A CONTINUATION OF THE ARRESTS, PERSECUTIONS, AND ASSASSINATIONS. THE OFFICES OF ALL THE [WORDS INDISTINCT] WERE ATTACKED. ITS LEADERS WERE FORCED TO SEEK REFUGE OR TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY TO ESCAPE THIS MANHUNT. THIS IS A POLICY FOR WHICH THE HIGH COMMAND AND ALFREDO CRISTIANI ARE DIRECTLY RESPONSIBLE. [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE U.S. AMBASSADOR AND U.S. EMBASSY PERSONNEL ARE FULLY AWARE OF THIS.</p><p>THE NEED TO COME UP WITH THIS VERSION COMES FROM THE PRECARIOUS PREDICAMENT THAT THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES HAVE FOUND THEMSELVES IN IN VIEW OF THE DEBATES TAKING PLACE IN THE U.S. CONGRESS TO DECIDE THE FATE OF AID TO EL SALVADOR, WHICH IS LINKED TO THE RESULTS OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS ON 16 NOVEMBER.</p></body></html>