<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0042"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0042"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0042</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0042</p><p>BOGOTA, 15 DEC 89 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] GENERAL CARLOS ARTURO CASADIEGO TORRADO, SECOND IN COMMAND OF THE COLOMBIAN POLICE, HAS REPORTED THE DEATH OF GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA. [POLICE DIRECTOR] GENERAL GOMEZ PADILLA, WHO IS IN CALI, WILL TRAVEL TO BOGOTA AND WILL SOON HOLD A NEWS CONFERENCE TO PROVIDE MORE DETAILS ON THE DEATH OF THIS CRIMINAL.</p><p>IN AN INTERVIEW, GEN CASADIEGO TORRADO INFORMED RCN OF THE OPERATION MOUNTED IN THE AREA WHERE THE INCIDENT OCCURRED.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CASADIEGO] WE HAVE BEEN INFORMED BY THOSE OPERATING IN THAT AREA THAT RODRIGUEZ GACHA, HIS SON, AND THE PEOPLE WITH THEM HAVE BEEN KILLED.</p><p>THAT IS THE INFORMATION WE HAVE AVAILABLE. WE DO NOT HAVE DETAILS ON THE OPERATION YET. IT WAS THE RESULT OF LONG-TERM INTELLIGENCE WORK CARRIED OUT WITH GREAT PROFESSIONALISM, WHICH GAVE US INFORMATION ON WHERE HE COULD BE FOUND. WE DEPLOYED SPECIAL GROUPS TO CARRY OUT THAT TASK.</p><p>[REPORTER] GENERAL, EXACTLY WHERE DID THE OPERATION, IN WHICH RODRIGUEZ GACHA, HIS SON, AND 15 OTHERS WERE KILLED, TAKE PLACE?</p><p>[CASADIEGO] IN A RURAL AREA, AS YOU KNOW, IN THE NORTHERN PART OF THE COUNTRY. I DO NOT KNOW THE EXACT LOCATION.</p><p>[REPORTER] HAS IT BEEN OFFICIALLY REPORTED THAT RODRIGUEZ GACHA AND HIS SON WERE KILLED? IS THIS AN OFFICIAL REPORT FROM THE NATIONAL POLICE?</p><p>[CASADIEGO] THAT IS THE INFORMATION I HAVE. THAT IS THE INFORMATION I HAVE RECEIVED FROM THE SCENE OF THE INCIDENT.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHO ARE THE OTHER 15 PEOPLE KILLED?</p><p>[CASADIEGO] WE HAVE NOT IDENTIFIED THEM YET. OFFICIALS ARE TRAVELING TO THE SITE TO OFFICIALLY IDENTIFY THE BODIES.</p><p>[REPORTER] WERE THEY ASSISTANTS, BODYGUARDS, ESCORTS?</p><p>[CASADIEGO] YES, WE ARE SURE OF THAT.</p><p>[REPORTER] HAVE WEAPONS OR OTHER ITEMS BEEN CONFISCATED? WE HAVE HEARD THAT IMPORTANT DOCUMENTS WERE FOUND.</p><p>[CASADIEGO] YES, WE KNOW THAT WEAPONS WERE FOUND WHICH WERE USED TO PROTECT THIS MAN. HOWEVER, AS I SAID, WE DO NOT HAVE THE DETAILS ON THE INCIDENT YET. WE HAVE BEEN TOLD THAT RODRIGUEZ GACHA AND HIS SON WERE KILLED, AS WELL AS OTHER INDIVIDUALS WHO WERE WITH HIM.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHO ELSE IS THERE? IS THERE A COMMISSION OF JUDGES? WE UNDERSTAND THAT A FEW MOMENTS AGO A PLANE DEPARTED WITH REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE AND THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE.</p><p>[CASADIEGO] I DO NOT KNOW IF REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE HAVE TRAVELED THERE. WE SENT POLICE INSPECTORS, JUDGES, AND WE KNOW THAT THE COMMANDERS OF THE THREE NEIGHBORING DEPARTMENTS WILL ALSO BE THERE.</p><p>[REPORTER] HOW WAS THE OPERATION PLANNED, AND HAS THE PRESIDENT BEEN INFORMED?</p><p>[CASADIEGO] AS I SAID, THIS OPERATION IS THE RESULT OF ARDUOUS WORK BY THE NATIONAL POLICE. IT WAS A VERY IMPORTANT MISSION. FOR A LONG TIME WE HAVE BEEN CARRYING OUT THESE TYPES OF OPERATIONS. WE ARE STILL DOING THIS TYPE OF WORK AND WILL CONTINUE TO DO SO. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>