<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0072"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0072"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0072</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0072</p><p>LIMA, NO DATE (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT GARCIA] [EXCERPTS] [CONTINUED] I BELIEVE THAT THE CLIMATE OF FLEXIBILITY IS EMBRACING THE ENTIRE POLITICAL, MILITARY, AND ECONOMIC WORLD SYSTEM AND THAT THE BANKS WILL HAVE TO BE CONTENT WITH COLLECTING LESS THAN WHAT THEY ORIGINALLY THOUGHT. THERE WAS A TRIUMPHANT PRESENTATION OF AN OFFER TO REDUCE A COUNTRY'S DEBT BY UP TO 20 PERCENT, BUT AS FAR AS WE KNOW THAT OFFER HAS NOT MATERIALIZED. FURTHERMORE, A 20-PERCENT REDUCTION IS NOT SIGNIFICANT, NOT GREAT ENOUGH TO SOLVE THE PROBLEMS OF POVERTY AND THE FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS OF LATIN AMERICA. THE REDUCTION MUST BE MUCH GREATER. A REDUCTION OF 10 OR 20 PERCENT WILL DO LITTLE; EVERYTHING WILL REMAIN THE SAME. WE BELIEVE -- AND I HAVE BEEN SAYING THIS TO EVERY LATIN AMERICAN PRESIDENT -- THAT ONLY THROUGH OUR ADOPTION OF FIRM AND DIGNIFIED POSITIONS WILL THE ADVERSARY RELENT. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>[GARCIA] LET ME NOW SAY A FEW WORDS ABOUT A DIFFERENT SUBJECT, THE ESTABLISHMENT OF RELATIONS WITH NORTH KOREA. I BELIEVE THE OPPOSITION HAS RAISED A TEMPEST IN A TEACUP; IT HAS RAISED AN ISSUE THAT IS OF NO RELEVANCE TO THE PERUVIAN PEOPLE. FIRST, WE UPHOLD THE CONCEPT OF UNIVERSALITY OF RELATIONS, OF MAINTAINING RELATIONS WITH ALL NATIONS. COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO ESTABLISHED RELATIONS WITH NORTH KOREA A FEW MONTHS AGO; HE DID NOT HAVE TO FACE A SAVAGE OPPOSITION TELLING HIM THAT HE WAS THROWING HIMSELF INTO THE ARMS OF TERRORISM. NOBODY HAS COMPLAINED TO CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ OR TO SALINAS DE GORTARI ABOUT MAINTAINING RELATIONS WITH NORTH KOREA. FOR THAT MATTER, NOBODY HAS OBJECTED IN BOLIVIA, AUSTRIA, OR SWEDEN, BECAUSE IN THOSE COUNTRIES THERE IS NO REACTIONARY RIGHT TO ARGUE THAT TO RECOGNIZE NORTH KOREA IS TO COURT DESTRUCTION.</p><p>SECOND, SOMEONE -- AND I DO NOT WANT TO MENTION HIM BY NAME -- HAS SAID THAT RELATIONS HAVE BEEN ESTABLISHED WITH A TERRORIST STATE. THIS IS A TREMENDOUS ERROR, BECAUSE 20,000 RIFLES SOLD TO US BY NORTH KOREA AT $90 APIECE -- $10 LESS THAN ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD -- HAVE MADE IT POSSIBLE TO SAVE AND DEFEND THE LIVES OF TENS OF THOUSANDS OF CIVILIAN GUARDS FROM THE NATIONAL POLICE AND HAVE MADE IT POSSIBLE TO ELIMINATE AND ERADICATE SUBVERSION IN MANY PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THIRD, INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ARE NOT DESIGNED TO BE AUCTIONED OFF TO THE HIGHEST BIDDER. IF SO WE WOULD HAVE TO BREAK RELATIONS WITH AUSTRALIA OR WITH FINLAND. ONE MUST MAINTAIN RELATIONS WITH ALL THE PEOPLES OF THE WORLD. UNDER SUCH CRITERIA, SINCE PERU RECOGNIZES THE FRG, IT SHOULD CLOSE ITS EMBASSY IN THE COMMUNIST GDR. THIS MANICHEAN CRITERION, THIS OBTUSE CRITERION, THIS OUTMODED CRITERION IS NO LONGER VALID; THE BERLIN WALL HAS BEEN RAZED. HOW CAN ONE SAY THAT THIS COUNTRY SHOULD BE RECOGNIZED AND ANOTHER SHOULDN'T? PERU WILL NOT ACCEPT ANY IMPERIALIST VETO ON ITS WORLD RELATIONS. WE HAVE HAD ENOUGH OF THE 1960'S AND 1970'S WHEN PASSPORTS SAID WE COULD NOT TRAVEL TO THE SOVIET UNION OR CUBA. PERUVIANS HAVE THE RIGHT TO TRAVEL WHEREVER THEY WISH, LIKE THEY WISH, AND WHEN THEY WISH. THIS IS FREEDOM, AND IT CANNOT BE CURTAILED BY THE ESTABLISHMENT OF OFF-LIMITS AREAS AROUND THE GLOBE.</p><p>FINALLY, SEVERAL OF THE GENTLEMEN WHO NOW OPPOSE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF RELATIONS WITH NORTH KOREA HAVE BEEN HONORED, ILLUSTRIOUS GUESTS OF THE NORTH KOREAN GOVERNMENT. THE OTHER DAY I HEARD SOME PEOPLE SPEAKING VEHEMENTLY ON THIS TOPIC, WHILE SOME OTHER PEOPLE NEARBY HAD BEEN HONORED GUESTS THERE. JOURNALISTS CAN SEEK OUT AND DETERMINE HOW MANY OF THOSE WHO NOW OPPOSE THESE RELATIONS HAVE BEEN HONORED GUESTS IN NORTH KOREA FOR WEEKS. NOW, FOR POLITICAL REASONS, THEY ARE OPPOSED TO THE ESTABLISHMENT OF RELATIONS WITH NORTH KOREA. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>