<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0089"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0089"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0089</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0089</p><p>BOGOTA, 30 MAR 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO TODAY MET WITH 8 OF THE 13 MEMBERS OF THE 19 APRIL MOVEMENT (M-19) "TEAM OF SPOKESMEN" AT THE NARINO PALACE. BARCO AND THE M-19 MEMBERS TALKED ABOUT THE PEACE PROCESS STARTED BY THE GOVERNMENT AND THE GUERRILLAS.</p><p>A PRESIDENTIAL PALACE SOURCE TOLD EFE THAT THE GUERRILLA REPRESENTATIVES DISCUSSED WITH PRESIDENT BARCO SOME OF THE ISSUES TO BE DEBATED AT THE "WORKING ROUNDTABLES." THE "WORKING ROUNDTABLES" COMPRISE DELEGATES OF THE GUERRILLAS, THE GOVERNMENT, AND THE POLITICAL PARTIES REPRESENTED IN THE COLOMBIAN CONGRESS, WHO WILL EXCHANGE VIEWS ON THE CHANGES THE COUNTRY NEEDS.</p><p>THE M-19 DELEGATES ARRIVED AT THE NARINO PALACE, LOCATED IN DOWNTOWN BOGOTA, UNDER STRICT SECURITY MEASURES AT 1800 LOCAL TIME (2300 GMT).</p><p>MEANWHILE, AT THE PEACE VILLAGE IN THE MOUNTAINS OF CAUCA DEPARTMENT, 350 KM SOUTHWEST OF BOGOTA, M-19 COMMANDER CARLOS PIZARRO LEONGOMEZ RELEASED A COMMUNIQUE IN WHICH HE ACCUSED THE COLOMBIAN ARMY OF ATTACKING AN M-19 GROUP ON 26 MARCH. ACCORDING TO PIZARRO, THE ATTACK WAS STAGED BY THE MILITARY TO "CREATE OBSTACLES FOR THE PEACE PROCESS." HE ADDED THAT COMMANDER MARCO CHALITA, COMMANDER OF THE M-19'S "SOUTHERN FRONT," WAS SLIGHTLY INJURED IN THE FIGHTING.</p><p>ON 26 MARCH, 9TH BRIGADE TROOPS CLASHED WITH THE "AMANDA RINCON" GROUP, LED BY CHALITA, IN A RURAL AREA OF PITALITO MUNICIPALITY, HUILA DEPARTMENT. DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL MANUEL JAIME GUERRERO PAZ DESCRIBED THE CLASH AS "AN UNFORTUNATE INCIDENT."</p><p>PIZARRO SAID IN A COMMUNIQUE ISSUED AT THE PEACE VILLAGE TODAY THAT THE TROOPS ATTACKED THE REBELS AND THAT "TWO OF OUR COMRADES WERE KILLED AND THREE OTHERS WOUNDED."</p><p>THE M-19 COMMANDER SAID "HE SHARED THE DEFENSE MINISTER'S VIEWPOINT," AND HE SAID "OBSTACLES STILL MUST BE OVERCOME" TO ACHIEVE A NATIONAL RECONCILIATION.</p><p>THE M-19 BEGAN TALKS WITH THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT IN JANUARY. FOLLOWING A SERIES OF MEETINGS WITH PRESIDENT BARCO'S ENVOYS, THEY AGREED ON THE CREATION OF "ROUNDTABLES." LAST WEEK, THE M-19 AND GOVERNMENT MINISTER RAUL OREJUELA MET AT THE PEACE VILLAGE, WHERE THE GUERRILLAS PRESENTED THE NAMES OF THE DELEGATES THAT WOULD PARTICIPATE AT THE "ROUNDTABLES," WHICH ARE SCHEDULED TO BEGIN DELIBERATIONS ON 3 APRIL.</p></body></html>