<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0008"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0008"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0008</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0008</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 17 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] WE HAVE STARTED A NEW DAY, THE SEVENTH, AND THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] IS STILL HOLDING ITS POSITIONS. WE HAVE NOT RETREATED A SINGLE STEP. IF WE MAKE ANY MOVE, IT WILL BE TO ADVANCE TOWARD THE ENEMY BARRACKS, BECAUSE WE WILL SEIZE POWER AND EXPEL THE MILITARY DICTATORSHIP THAT HAS INSTALLED ITSELF IN OUR HOMELAND. THE FMLN MAINTAINS FOR THE 7TH DAY ITS POSITIONS IN THE DEPARTMENTAL CAPITALS. WE CONTINUE TO ADVANCE IN SAN MIGUEL; WE HAVE MADE AN IMPORTANT SEIZURE OF WEAPONS IN SAN MIGUEL.</p><p>THE SITUATION COULD NOT BE BETTER IN SAN SALVADOR. LAST NIGHT WE REPORTED THAT THE ARCH OF LIBERTY EXISTS IN THE CAPITAL; IT IS COMPRISED OF NEIGHBORHOODS AND HOUSING PROJECTS -- WHERE THE PROTAGONISTS OF THIS HISTORY ARE THE MASSES, WHICH ARE ORGANIZED FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF TRENCHES AND BARRICADES. THE PEOPLE ARE THE MOST IMPORTANT PROTAGONISTS IN THIS HISTORIC ACTION.</p><p>RADIO VENCEREMOS URGES THE PEOPLE TO MULTIPLY THEIR ORGANIZATION IN EACH NEIGHBORHOOD, RESIDENTIAL AREA, AND TOWN. POPULAR COMMITTEES MUST BE ORGANIZED; THE PEOPLE MUST ORGANIZE THEMSELVES; BUT IF THE ENEMY IS NEAR, THIS MUST BE DONE CLANDESTINELY. ALL THE GROUPS IN EACH TOWN, MEANING THE RELIGIOUS GROUPS, STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS, TEACHERS ORGANIZATIONS, AND COOPERATIVES, MUST ALL ORGANIZE, REGARDLESS OF THEIR POLITICAL BELIEFS. OUR UNITY MUST BECOME THE BEST TOOL TO EVICT, ONCE AND FOR ALL, THE MURDEROUS MILITARY DICTATORSHIP WHICH ASSASSINATES PRIESTS AND WHICH BOMBED THE CAPITAL AGAIN EARLY THIS MORNING. IT HAS AGAIN CAUSED MORE DEATHS AND WOUNDED IN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>IT IS IMPORTANT FOR THE PEOPLE TO ORGANIZE COMMITTEES IN EACH NEIGHBORHOOD, RESIDENTIAL AREA, AND TOWN, AND THE WHOLE COMMUNITY MUST PARTICIPATE. IF THE ARMED FORCES ARE NEAR, THEN CLANDESTINE ORGANIZATION MUST BE CONDUCTED IN SMALL TOWNS, VILLAGES, AND NEIGHBORHOODS. THE PEOPLE MUST ORGANIZE THEMSELVE TO CONSPIRE AGAINST DEATH, TO CONSPIRE AGAINST THE ASSASSINS, TO CONSPIRE AGAINST POVERTY, TO CONSPIRE AGAINST HUNGER, AND TO CONSPIRE AGAINST THE BOMBINGS. IT IS NECESSARY TO ORGANIZE THE PEOPLE; IT IS NECESSARY TO ORGANIZE THE ENTIRE COUNTRY. EL SALVADOR MUST BECOME A BODY COMPRISED OF ORGANIZED CELLS -- EVERYWHERE AND IN EVERY POSSIBLE FORM -- REGARDLESS OF THE PEOPLE'S RELIGIOUS BELIEFS OR POLITICAL PARTY.</p><p>WE ISSUE AN APPEAL TO THE DECEIVED ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] RANK AND FILE, WHO VOTED BELIEVING THAT THIS GOVERNMENT WOULD REPRESENT A CHANGE FOR THE BETTER. WE ALSO ISSUE AN APPEAL TO ALL THE PATRIOTIC CITIZENS OF THE HOMELAND, URGING THEM TO STOP THE DESTRUCTION OF THE CAPITAL, TO STOP THE DESTRUCTION OF THE COUNTRY. WE URGE THEM TO UNITE AND STOP THE WAR; AND THE END OF THE WAR IS NEAR -- WITH THE PEOPLE'S VICTORY. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>