<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0011"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0011"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0011</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0011</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 7 FEB 90 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [REPORT] [ALFREDO VILLAREAL] [TEXT] THE CHIEF OF THE ARMED FORCES JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF [COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE] HAS CATEGORICALLY DENIED THAT THERE ARE ANY RIFTS BETWEEN SALVADORAN ARMY OFFICERS AND U.S. MILITARY ADVISERS, AS ASSERTED BY THE WASHINGTON POST. THE NEWSPAPER STATED THAT THE ALLEGED RIFT BETWEEN THE MILITARY OFFICERS BEGAN ONCE IT WAS DISCOVERED WHO WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DEATH OF SIX JESUIT PRIESTS, IN WHICH ONE COLONEL, TWO LIEUTENANTS, AND SIX SOLDIERS ARE BEING CHARGED.</p><p>COLONEL PONCE SAID THAT THE RELATIONS WITH U.S. ADVISERS -- ABOUT 52 IN THE COUNTRY -- ARE VERY CORDIAL.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PONCE] OUR RELATIONS WITH THE NORTH AMERICANS ARE NORMAL AS USUAL. THE U.S. ADVISERS HAVE HELPED US VERY MUCH IN THE PROFESSIONALIZATION OF THE ARMED FORCES, AND THEY CONTINUE WORKING WITH US.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHERE DO YOU THINK THESE WIRE REPORTS STATING THERE ARE RIFTS BETWEEN SALVADORAN MILITARY OFFICERS AND U.S. ADVISERS HAVE ORGINIATED?</p><p>[PONCE] I DO NOT KNOW; I CANNOT UNDERSTAND. THERE ARE ALWAYS THOSE WHO TRY TO BREAK THE STRATEGIC ALLIANCE BETWEEN THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND ARMED FORCES AND THE UNITED STATES. THIS IS A POOR COUNTRY THAT DEPENDS A GREAT DEAL ON U.S. ECONOMIC AND MILITARY AID.</p><p>[REPORTER] FOLLOWING THE MURDER OF THE JESUITS, WHAT ARE RELATIONS LIKE BETWEEN THE SALVADORAN MILITARY AND THE GRINGO ADVISERS?</p><p>[PONCE] AS USUAL, THESE RELATIONS ARE VERY CORDIAL, AND THEY CONTINUE TO WORK WITH US. AS YOU CAN SEE, TWO ADVISERS ARE HERE WITH ME NOW AT THE TABLE PRESIDING OVER THE EVENT. THE SAME HAS BEEN THE CASE WITH ALL THE UNITS IN THE COUNTRY'S INTERIOR. I FAIL TO SEE ANY DIFFERENCE IN RELATIONS BEFORE AND AFTERWARD. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE MILITARY CHIEF REPEATED THE NEED TO MAINTAIN THE STATE OF EMERGENCY, NOT ONLY DUE TO THE GUERRILLA ATTACKS, BUT ALSO TO KEEP CONTROL OVER THE ORGANIZATION FRONTS JUST PRIOR TO AN EXPECTED WAVE OF PROTESTS ON THE LATEST GOVERNMENT ECONOMY MEASURES.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [PONCE] WE MUST START THINKING WHAT MAY HAPPEN TO DOMESTIC ORDER IN THE FACE OF THE ECONOMIC MEASURES THAT HAVE BEEN ISSUED OR ARE PLANNED. WE MUST THINK WHAT THE REACTION OF THE PEOPLE OR THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] ORGANIZATION FRONTS WILL BE, AS THEY ALWAYS USE ANY EXCUSE TO DISRUPT DOMESTIC ORDER. IT WOULD BE GOOD TO LOOK INTO WHAT IS NEEDED TO MAINTAIN DOMESTIC ORDER IN THE COUNTRY. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE HIGH-RANKING MILITARY OFFICER GAVE THESE STATEMENTS AT THE CEREMONY TO TURN OVER COMMAND OF THE CAPTAIN GENERAL GERARDO BARRIOS MILITARY ACADEMY. THE NEW COMMANDER IS COLONEL RICARDO ALFONSO CASANOVA SANDOVAL, WHO REPLACES COLONEL GUILLERMO ALFREDO BENAVIDES MORENO, REMOVED FROM HIS POST AFTER BEING ACCUSED OF ORDERING THE MURDER OF THE JESUIT PRIESTS.</p><p>MEANWHILE, COLONEL HECTOR HERIBERTO HERNANDEZ HAS BEEN APPOINTED COMMANDER OF THE 6TH INFANTRY BRIGADE BASED IN USULUTAN, AND IN LA UNION DEPARTMENT THE CHANGE OF COMMAND CEREMONIES OF THE ARMED FORCES MILITARY TRAINING CENTER HAVE TAKEN PLACE, WHERE COLONEL FRANCISCO ARTURO LOPEZ WILL BE IN COMMAND REPLACING COLONEL CARLOS ALFREDO RIVAS, WHO HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED TO THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF.</p></body></html>