<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0040"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0040"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0040</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0040</p><p>BOGOTA, 17 JAN 90 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [THE EXTRADITABLES] [TEXT] 1. WE HAVE LEARNED ABOUT THE PATRIOTIC INVITATION INCLUDED IN THE DOCUMENT SIGNED BY MONSIGNOR MARIO REVOLLO BRAVO AND BY THE DISTINGUISHED FORMER PRESIDENTS ALFONSO LOPEZ, JULIO CESAR TURBAY, AND MISAEL PASTRANA AS WELL AS BY PATRIOTIC UNION PRESIDENT DIEGO MONTANA CUELLAR.</p><p>2. TO RESPOND TO SUCH PROPOSALS, WE REITERATE OUR WELL-KNOWN PEACE COMMITMENTS EXPRESSED IN OUR MOST SINCERE AND FRANK STATEMENTS.</p><p>3. WE FULLY SHARE THE CRITERIA EXPRESSED BY THEM REGARDING THE SURVIVAL OF THE STATE AND GOVERNMENT, WHICH WAS DEMOCRATICALLY ELECTED, AGAINST ORGANIZATIONS AND PEOPLE LIKE US, WHO HAVE SHOWN NO REGARD FOR THE LAW BY FIGHTING INSTITUTIONS AND THE LEGALLY ESTABLISHED ORDER.</p><p>4. AFTER EVALUATING OUR CONDUCT UNDER THE PREVIOUS CONCEPT, WE ARE ONLY INTERESTED IN PEACE, TRANQUILLITY, AND DEMOCRACY FOR OUR FATHERLAND AND FOR OUR PEOPLE.</p><p>5. AS A RESULT, WE ACCEPT THE VICTORY OF THE STATE, THE INSTITUTIONS, AND THE LEGALLY ESTABLISHED GOVERNMENT. WE WILL LAY DOWN OUR WEAPONS AND OTHER MEANS OF STRUGGLE FOR THE SAKE OF THE COUNTRY'S BEST INTERESTS.</p><p>6. WE ACCEPT THE LEGAL ORDER THAT IS CURRENTLY IN FORCE WITH THE HOPE THAT THE GOVERNMENT AND SOCIETY WILL RESPECT OUR RIGHTS AND WILL ALLOW US TO RETURN TO OUR FAMILIES AND COMMUNITIES.</p><p>7. AS AN ABSOLUTE PROOF OF OUR INTEREST IN ACHIEVING PEACE, WE HAVE DECIDED TO IMMEDIATELY RELEASE MRS PATRICIA ECHAVARRIA AND HER DAUGHTER AS WELL AS OTHER PEOPLE WHO ARE BEING HELD HOSTAGE AS CIRCUMSTANCES PERMIT. WE WOULD LIKE TO ADD THAT WE ARE NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL THE CASES OF KIDNAPPED PEOPLE OF WHICH WE ARE ACCUSED.</p><p>8. WE OFFER OUR SERVICES AS MEDIATORS TO ACHIEVE PEACE WITH THE EMERALD TRAFFICKERS, THE SO-CALLED PARAMILITARY GROUPS, AND THE SO-CALLED HIRED ASSASSINS WITH THE ONLY PURPOSE OF ENDING THE VIOLENCE THAT IS HURTING OUR COLOMBIAN FATHERLAND.</p><p>9. WE HAVE DECIDED TO SUSPEND THE SHIPMENT OF DRUGS AND TO TURN IN OUR WEAPONS, EXPLOSIVES, LABORATORIES, CLANDESTINE LANDING STRIPS, AND OTHER ELEMENTS THAT ARE RELATED TO OUR ACTIVITIES AS SOON AS WE GET CONSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL GUARANTEES.</p><p>10. THERE WILL BE NO MORE BOMBINGS ANYWHERE ON NATIONAL TERRITORY AND WE HAVE ORDERED THE SUSPENSION OF ALL TYPES OF EXECUTIONS OF POLITICAL LEADERS, GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, ASSOCIATION LEADERS, JUDICIAL OFFICIALS, JOURNALISTS, POLICEMEN, AND SOLDIERS.</p><p>11. THE ESSENTIAL REASON FOR OUR STRUGGLE HAS BEEN AND WILL ALWAYS BE OUR FAMILIES, OUR FREEDOM, OUR PEOPLE, OUR LIVES, AND OUR RIGHTS AS CITIZENS OF THIS FATHERLAND.</p><p>THE EXTRADITABLES, 16 JANUARY 1990</p></body></html>