<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0013"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0013"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="QUITO"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0013</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0013</p><p>QUITO, 30 APR 90 (RADIO QUITO) -- [STATEMENT] [COMMUNICATIONS SECRETARY PEDRO SAAD] [TEXT] THIS AFTERNOON, ON THE BERMEJA RIVER, SUCUMBIOS PROVINCE, IN NORTHEASTERN ECUADOR, AT APPROXIMATELY ONE AND A HALF KM FROM THE COLOMBIAN BORDER, A SMALL ECUADORAN FLAGSHIP WORKING WITH THE IMANCO MINING COMPANY, WAS INTERCEPTED BY A COLOMBIAN VESSEL WHICH FIRED AUTOMATIC WEAPONS.</p><p>THE FOLLOWING PEOPLE WERE ABOARD THE ECUADORAN FLAGSHIP: U.S. CITIZEN SCOTT HEYNDAL, ECUADOREANS LUIS ANTONIO MENESES BENAVIDES AND EDWIN RODRIGO TENEDA PARRENO, AND COLOMBIAN PILOT JULIO TORRES. MR. TORRES WAS KILLED AND MR. MENESES WAS WOUNDED.</p><p>THE ATTACKERS, WHO WORE FIELD UNIFORMS OF THE COLOMBIAN MILITARY, BOARDED THE ECUADORAN VESSEL, AND, AFTER NOTICING THAT MR. MENESES WAS WOUNDED, GAVE HIM 100,000 COLOMBIAN PESOS AND THEN LEFT HIM AND MR. TORRES' BODY. THE ATTACKERS RETURNED TO COLOMBIA TAKING HEYNDAL AND TENEDA WITH THEM. THEY CROSSED THE BORDER AND SAILED UPRIVER FOR ABOUT TWO AND A HALF HOURS ON THE RUMIYACU RIVER.</p><p>THE ATTACKERS SPENT THE EVENING AT A CAMP NEAR THE RIVER AND FORCED MR. HEYNDAL TO WRITE LETTERS TO HIS BOSS AT THE MINING PROJECT, MR. JEFF SINO, ALSO A U.S. CITIZEN, AND TO HIS WIFE. THOSE LETTERS WERE GIVEN TO MR. TENEDA, WHO RECEIVED 20,000 COLOMBIAN PESOS. HE WAS THEN ORDERED TO RETURN TO ECUADOR AND GIVEN INSTRUCTIONS FOR DELIVERING THE LETTERS.</p></body></html>