<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0032"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0032"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0032</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0032</p><p>BOGOTA, 22 MAR 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL OSCAR BOTERO RESTREPO DISCLOSED THIS AFTERNOON THAT MEDELLIN CARTEL BOSS PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA ORDERED THE ASSASSINATION OF BERNARDO JARAMILLO OSSA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE OF PATRIOTIC UNION, UP.</p><p>BOTERO SAID THAT INITIAL INVESTIGATIONS HAVE REVEALED THAT ESCOBAR GAVIRIA PLANNED AND ORDERED THE ATTACK ON JARAMILLO OSSA. GEN. BOTERO TOLD REPORTERS THAT THE MEDELLIN CARTEL CONTRACTED THE SERVICES OF AN ORGANIZATION OF HIRED ASSASSINS AND SENT THEM TO BOGOTA TO ASSASSINATE THE UP LEADER.</p><p>HE ADDED THAT ESCOBAR GAVIRIA ORDERED THE DELIVERY OF AN INITIAL SUM OF 300,000 PESOS TO A THIRD PERSON AFTER THE CRIME WAS COMMITTED AT EL DORADO AIRPORT'S PEDESTRIAN OVERPASS IN BOGOTA.</p><p>THE DEFENSE MINISTER SAID THAT MINUTES AFTER THE KILLING THE DAS [ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY] INTELLIGENCE SERVICE INTERCEPTED AN ESCOBAR GAVIRIA CONVERSATION IN MEDELLIN. HE WAS ORDERING HIS ACCOMPLICES TO PAY 300,000 PESOS TO A THIRD PERSON LINKED TO THE PAID ASSASSIN WHO KILLED THE UP LEADER.</p><p>BOTERO ALSO DISCLOSED THAT THE ASSASSIN IS A 16-YEAR-OLD YOUTH WHO CARRIED A FALSE IDENTIFICATION CARD UNDER THE NAME OF JAIRO ALBERTO RESTREPO POSADA.</p><p>MEANWHILE, ANONYMOUS CALLS WERE RECEIVED BY VARIOUS BOGOTA MEDIA TODAY. THE CALLERS WERE ATTRIBUTING THE ATTACK ON UP LEADER JARAMILLO OSSA TO A SO-CALLED GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA COMMANDO GROUP. IN THESE CALLS, IT WAS SAID THAT THE MEDELLIN CARTEL DECIDED TO RESUME THE WAR BECAUSE FOR FIVE MONTHS IT OFFERED TO NEGOTIATE WITH THE VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS GOVERNMENT, AND THE ONLY RESPONSE IT RECEIVED WAS TO URGE CARTEL MEMBERS TO TURN THEMSELVES IN TO JUSTICE.</p><p>IN ADDITION, THREATS WERE MADE AGAINST OTHER COLOMBIAN POLITICAL FIGURES SUCH AS LIBERAL PARTY CANDIDATE CESAR GAVIRIA TRUJILLO. THE CALLERS SAID THAT THE EXTRADITABLES RELEASED KIDNAPPED PEOPLE, DELIVERED LABORATORIES, AND LARGE QUANTITIES OF DYNAMITE AS PROOF OF THEIR INTENTION TO TALK, BUT THEY NEVER RECEIVED A REPLY FROM THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>THE CALLERS SAID: WE ARE GOING TO TURN OURSELVES IN, BUT WE WILL BE DEAD WHEN WE DO SO. HOWEVER, BEFORE THIS HAPPENS, THEY SAID, THE COUNTRY WILL SEE THE BODIES OF ITS LEADERS, JUST AS IN THE CASE OF JARAMILLO OSSA.</p></body></html>