<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0037"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0037"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-17"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0037</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0037</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 17 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WE CANNOT BUT THANK YOU AND RECOGNIZE THE WAY IN WHICH YOU ARE BEARING THE FMLN AGGRESSION.</p><p>WE TRULY HAVE A DUTY TOWARD THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND WE WILL GIVE YOU ALL OUR SUPPORT. WE ARE WILLING TO GIVE YOU EVERYTHING THAT WE CAN POSSIBLY GIVE YOU SO THAT [WORD INDISTINCT] CAN LIVE IN PEACE AND TRANQUILLITY.</p><p>ECHOING THAT ATTITUDE, SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WE MUST ALSO HELP OUR SOLDIERS. WE MUST GIVE THEM ALL THE COOPERATION THEY NEED IN ORDER FOR THE CURRENT SITUATION TO END AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. WE MUST CALL FOR NATIONAL UNITY. WE MUST ALL COOPERATE TO SAVE OUR HOMELAND FROM THE TERRORIST AGGRESSION. WE MUST ALL UNITE TO ACHIEVE PEACE AND TRANQUILLITY AS SOON AS POSSIBLE, ALWAYS TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THE SITUATION OUR COUNTRY IS GOING THROUGH.</p><p>WE MUST SUPPORT OUR DEMOCRATIC PROCESS, OUR INSTITUTIONS, AND WE MUST TOTALLY REJECT THE FMLN TERRORIST FORCES. WE MUST FACE THOSE FORCES THROUGH A UNITED FRONT. WE CALL ON ALL OF OUR COUNTRY'S DEMOCRATIC AND POLITICAL FORCES TO FORM A UNITED FRONT; TO REJECT VIOLENCE AS A WAY OF SOLVING PROBLEMS IN EL SALVADOR; AND TO UNITE IN OUR ASPIRATION TO LIVE IN A DEMOCRACY AND IN PEACE, TRANQUILLITY, AND RESPECT FOR THE LAWS. BRIEFLY, WE MUST UNITE TO LIVE IN A DE JURE STATE IN WHICH THE PEOPLE CAN LIVE IN HARMONY AND TRANQUILLITY.</p><p>IT IS THEREFORE NECESSARY THAT ALL POLITICAL PARTIES JOIN EFFORTS, NOT AROUND A GOVERNMENT OR AN INSTITUTION, BUT FOR THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE TO ACHIEVE THEIR DEAREST GOALS.</p><p>WE ARE RECEIVING THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY'S SUPPORT. THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY IS SUPPORTING SALVADORAN DEMOCRACY. WE HAVE RECEIVED ENCOURAGING MESSAGES FROM COUNTRIES SUCH AS GREAT BRITAIN, WHICH HAS VIGOROUSLY CONDEMNED THE FMLN TERRORIST ACTION. WE HAVE RECEIVED A MESSAGE FROM THE EEC, IN WHICH THAT GROUP IS TELLING THE FMLN THAT THE ARMED STRUGGLE IS NOT THE SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEMS AND THAT TO BE ABLE TO SOLVE OUR PROBLEMS, WE MUST FIRST HAVE PEACE AND THEN ACHIEVE THE COUNTRY'S SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT. THOSE GOALS MUST BE ATTAINED THROUGH A PEACE PROCESS. THE GOVERNMENT HAD ALREADY BEGAN THAT PROCESS AND THE FMLN TRIED TO BREAK IT. THE PEACE PROCESS MUST BE BASED ON THE ESQUIPULAS II AGREEMENT AND ESPECIALLY ON THE TELA AGREEMENT.</p><p>WE HAVE ALSO WITNESSED HOW DIFFERENT POLITICAL AND IDEOLOGICAL TENDENCIES HAVE BECOME UNIFIED IN OTHER COUNTRIES. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>