<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0069"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0069"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0069</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0069</p><p>BOGOTA, 7 SEP 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [REPORT] [MARIBEL OSORIO] [TEXT] MEDELLIN CONTINUES TO LIVE THROUGH A WAVE OF TERROR. FOLLOWING LAST NIGHT'S ATTACK ON A BANK, WHICH CAUSED A LOT OF DAMAGE, A LOAD OF DYNAMITE WAS HURLED AGAINST A POLICE STATION. FORTUNATELY NO ONE WAS HURT. HOWEVER, AT APPROXIMATELY 1700 TODAY A BOMB EXPLODED INSIDE A FAST-FOOD RESTAURANT.</p><p>A MEDIUM-SIZED BOMB EXPLODED SHORTLY BEFORE 1700 AT THE PRESTO INSTALLATIONS LOCATED ON [WORDS INDISTINCT] AND PLAYA AVENUE. APPROXIMATELY 35 PEOPLE WERE INSIDE THE RESTAURANT AT THE TIME. A WORKER NOTICED A SUSPICIOUS PACKAGE UNDER A TABLE WHERE MINUTES BEFORE TWO MEN HAD BEEN SEATED. AFTER AN INITIAL MINOR EXPLOSION, THE PACKAGE EXPLODED. THE 35 PEOPLE HAD ALREADY BEEN EVACUATED FROM THE BUILDING, AND ONLY 1 POLICEMAN WAS SLIGHTLY INJURED; HE WAS THROWN TO THE GROUND BY THE SHOCK WAVE. THE AREA WAS IMMEDIATELY CORDONED OFF BY AUTHORITIES WHILE THE OTHER BUSINESSES CLOSED THEIR DOORS. IT IS NOT KNOWN HOW MUCH DAMAGE WAS CAUSED; HOWEVER, MOST OF THE DAMAGE WAS OCCURRED INSIDE THE RESTAURANT. THE MEN WHO LEFT THE BOMB FLED AND THERE ARE NO CLUES AS TO THEIR WHEREABOUTS.</p></body></html>