<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0024"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0024"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0024</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0024</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [INTERVIEW WITH FMLN COMMANDER GONZALEZ BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [REPORTER] COMMANDER, WHAT CAN THE POPULAR MOVEMENT, THE LABOR UNIONS, AND THE HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS DO IN THE FACE OF A GOVERNMENT AND A MILITARY LEADERSHIP THAT CARRY OUT THIS TYPE OF ATTACK, THIS TYPE OF MASSACRE, IN A LEGAL FRAMEWORK THAT OFFERS NO GUARANTEE TO THE POPULAR MOVEMENT? WHAT CAN THE POPULAR MOVEMENT DO?</p><p>[GONZALEZ] I BELIEVE THAT THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT IS CLOSING ALL THE ROADS TO A PEACEFUL SOLUTION OF THIS CONFLICT. THROUGH REPRESSION IT IS CLOSING OFF THE POSSIBILITY OF LABOR UNIONS AND ASSOCIATIONS RESOLVING THEIR PROBLEMS PEACEFULLY. THE GOVERNMENT IS CLOSING OFF THE POSSIBILITY OF NEGOTIATIONS. THE ARMY AND THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT ARE OPPOSED TO TRUE NEGOTIATIONS. THE PEOPLE HAVE NO ALTERNATIVE. IN EL SALVADOR THERE IS A LATENT PATH, THE PATH OF ARMED ACTIONS. AT THIS MOMENT, AS THIS GOVERNMENT INCREASES REPRESSION, ARMED ACTIONS BECOME INCREASINGLY LEGITIMATE, ARMED ACTIONS TO FIND SOLUTIONS TO THE CONFLICT, ARMED ACTIONS TO STOP THE REPRESSION BY THE REGIME.</p><p>THE WORKERS AND THEIR ASSOCIATIONS AND LABOR UNIONS ARE ENTITLED TO DEFEND THEMSELVES AND THEIR LABOR BENEFITS. DEFENSE IS LEGITIMATE. IT IS LEGITIMATE FOR THE WORKERS TO DECIDE TO DEFEND THEMSELVES THE ARMED WAY, THROUGH VIOLENCE. IT IS THE CRISTIANI GOVERNMENT, PONCE, AND THE HIGH COMMAND WHO ARE LEAVING THE WORKERS NO ALTERNATIVE.</p><p>[REPORTER] TO CONCLUDE, COMMANDER: IN RECENT HOURS THERE HAVE BEEN ATTACKS IN THE CAPITAL, INCLUDING BOMB ATTACKS ON THE RESIDENCES OF DEMOCRATIC LEADERS SUCH AS RUBEN ZAMORA AND ARONETE DIAZ, AN ATTACK ON THE RESIDENCE OF COLONEL CARRANZA, AND AN ATTACK ON A RELATIVE OF COLONEL LOPEZ HUILA, AMONG OTHERS. THE ARMED FORCES AND THE GOVERNMENT HAVE PUBLICLY SAID THAT THE FMLN IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THESE ATTACKS.</p><p>[GONZALEZ] OUR ARMED ACTIONS ARE HIGHLY JUST AND HAVE POLITICAL MOTIVATIONS. OUR OBJECTIVES ARE STRICTLY MILITARY. ALL OUR GUERRILLA UNITS FUNCTION ACCORDING TO THIS PRINCIPLE, BE IT IN THE RURAL AREAS OR IN THE CITIES WHERE OUR URBAN COMMANDOS OPERATE.</p><p>THE ATTACK ON THE ARMED FORCES STAFF INSTALLATIONS AND OTHER OPERATIONS AGAINST MILITARY TARGETS ARE OUR RESPONSIBILITY. THE FMLN'S POLICY IS NOT TO ATTACK RELATIVES OF MILITARY MEN OR POLITICIANS. THE HIGH COMMAND HAS BEEN TRYING TO CONFUSE THE PEOPLE HERE AND ABROAD. WHAT IS ITS OBJECTIVE? TO COVER UP ITS REPRESSIVE POLICY. IT IS ESCALATING ITS ACTIONS. IT HAS GONE FROM THE SELECTIVE CAPTURE AND MURDER OF LEADERS TO MASS ARRESTS, AND FROM MASS ARRESTS IT HAS MOVED INTO GENOCIDE AND INDISCRIMINATE ATTACKS.</p><p>IT IS CLEAR THAT ITS OBJECTIVE IS THE SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS. THE GOVERNMENT SAID IT IN SAN JOSE. IT IS EVIDENT THAT THE HIGH COMMAND IS TRYING TO CREATE CONFUSION, BUT THE PEOPLE ABROAD AND WE KNOW THAT OUR ACTIONS ARE AIMED AT MILITARY OBJECTIVES.</p></body></html>