<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0057"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0057"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0057</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0057</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [STATEMENT] [FMLN] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] A. WE HEREBY VOICE OUR WILLINGNESS THAT THERE BE AN IMMEDIATE IN SITU CEASE-FIRE WITH INTERNATIONAL SUPERVISION AND AN OVERALL AND DEFINITIVE SIMULTANEOUS NEGOTIATION LEADING TO A NATIONAL CONSENSUS BASED ON DEMOCRATIZATION, DEMILITARIZATION OF SOCIETY, AND RESPECT FOR THE RIGHTS OF SALVADORANS.</p><p>B. IN ORDER TO HOLD GOOD NEGOTIATIONS, WE FEEL IT IS NECESSARY TO ESTABLISH IMMEDIATE GUARANTEES FOR THE RESPECT OF HUMAN RIGHTS, DEMOCRATIC FREEDOMS, AND POLITICAL AND SOCIAL GROUPS THROUGH:</p><p>1. LIFTING OF THE STATE OF SIEGE AND REPEAL OF THE LAW ON REFO THE PENAL CODES, ALSO KNOWN AS THE ANTITERRORIST LAW THAT WAS RECENTLY APPROVED BY THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY.</p><p>2. RELEASE OF ALL POLITICAL PRISONERS.</p><p>3. ALLOWED DEPARTURE OF FMLN WAR DISABLED AND MEDICAL TREATMEN FMLN WOUNDED.</p><p>4. IMMEDIATE DISMISSAL OF THE FOLLOWING COMMANDERS AND OFFICER COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINTS CHIEFS OF STAFF, FOR HIS RESPONSIBILITY IN DECISIONS MADE BY THE ARMED FORCES HIGH COMMAND TO CARRY OUT INDISCRIMINATE BOMBINGS AGAINST THE CIVILIAN POPULATION AND THE ASSASSINATION OF THE SIX JESUIT PRIESTS; GENERAL RAFAEL BUSTILLOS, GENERAL RAFAEL ANTONIO VILLAMARIONA, AND LIEUTENANT COLONEL JUAN ANTONIO MARTINEZ VARELA, COMMANDER AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE AIR FORCE, FOR THEIR DIRECT RESPONSIBILITY IN THE BOMBINGS OF THE CIVILIAN POPULATION; COLONEL ORLANDO ZEPEDA, DEPUTY DEFENSE MINISTER, FOR HAVING SIGNED THE ORDER TO ASSASSINATE THE SIX JESUIT PRIESTS; COLONEL HERIBERTO HERNANDEZ, DIRECTOR OF THE TREASURY POLICE, WHICH IS THE CORPS THAT CARRIED OUT THE MURDERS; AND CAPTAIN ALFONSO CHAVEZ GARCIA, WHO WAS THE DIRECT PERPETRATOR OF THESE MURDERS. ALL OF THESE DISMISSALS ARE NEEDED FOR THE CREDIBILITY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE DECISION TO ESTABLISH GUARANTEES FOR THE RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND AS A FIRST STEP IN THE PURGE OF THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES, WHICH IS NECESSARY FOR THE DISMANTLING OF THE BLOODY MILITARY DICTATORSHIP OF THE PAST 60 YEARS.</p><p>5. THE IN SITU VERIFICATION OF THE RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS MUST BE CARRIED OUT BY THE INTER-AMERICAN HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION AND THE UN WORK TEAM ON THE FORCED DISAPPEARANCES.</p><p>C. WE THINK IT IS INDISPENSABLE TO REORGANIZE THE NEGOTIATING TABLE TO ENSURE THAT OPPOSITION POLITICAL PARTIES AND SOCIAL GROUPS ARE ABLE TO FULLY PARTICIPATE ALONG WITH THE GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN. THIS WILL ASSURE A NATIONAL CONSENSUS SOLUTION.</p><p>MESSRS PRESIDENTS: THE SCOPE OF WAR IN OUR COUNTRY DEMANDS REALISTIC VIEWPOINTS, VIABLE AND URGENT SOLUTIONS. YOU CAN CONTRIBUTE SO THAT THE NEGOTIATIONS WILL PREVAIL OVER WAR AND THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PEACE PROCESS WILL YIELD SPECIFIC RESULTS.</p><p>WE REITERATE OUR APPRECIATION TO YOUR CONTRIBUTIONS,</p><p>THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND, EL SALVADOR, 8 DECEMBER 1989.</p></body></html>