<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0096"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0096"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-21"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0096</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0096</p><p>LIMA, 21 MAR 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE PERUVIAN NAVY TODAY FORMALLY DENIED THAT ITS INTELLIGENCE SERVICES HAD UNCOVERED A PLOT TO ASSASSINATE WRITER MARIO VARGAS LLOSA, WHO IS CONSIDERED TO BE THE FAVORITE CANDIDATE TO WIN THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION THAT WILL BE HELD ON 8 APRIL.</p><p>CITING AN ALLEGED NAVY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, A TELEVISION STATION CARRIED A REPORT -- WHICH WAS LATER PICKED UP BY A NEWSPAPER -- TACITLY SUGGESTING THAT THE COMMUNIST TUPAC AMARU REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT (MRTA) AND PROMINENT PEOPLE IN THE PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT, INCLUDING PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA, WERE INVOLVED IN THE ALLEGED PLOT.</p><p>THE NAVY HAS ISSUED AN OFFICIAL COMMUNIQUE IN WHICH IT DENIES THE ALLEGED SOURCE OF THE DOCUMENT AND STATES THAT THE ALLEGATIONS, CONSIDERING THE RANK OF THE PERSONALITIES MENTIONED, COULD BE A MATTER AFFECTING NATIONAL SECURITY.</p><p>THE REPORT ON THE PLOT WAS INITIALLY CARRIED BY CHANNEL FOUR DURING A POLITICAL PROGRAM. IT WAS LATER PICKED UP BY THE CENTER-RIGHT WING NEWSPAPER EXPRESO, ONE OF THE LEADING NEWSPAPERS IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>ALVARO VARGAS LLOSA, A SON AND SPOKESMAN FOR THE PERUVIAN WRITER, STATED THAT "WE GIVE GREAT CREDENCE TO THE DOCUMENT SHOWN ON TELEVISION BUT THE AUTHORITIES SEEM TO HAVE IGNORED IT. IT CONCERNS MY FATHER AND IT SHOULD BE TAKEN SERIOUSLY."</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE DOCUMENT, THE AUTHENTICITY OF WHICH HAS BEEN OFFICIALLY DENIED BY THE NAVY, AN MRTA HIT SQUAD WOULD MURDER THE NOVELIST AND PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE OF THE DEMOCRATIC FRONT (FREDEMO) AND OTHER PERSONALITIES OF THE CENTER-RIGHT WING COALITION.</p><p>THE REPORT ADDS THAT THE PLOT MAY HAVE BEEN CONCOCTED EARLY IN DECEMBER LAST YEAR AT A MEETING REPORTEDLY ATTENDED BY PRESIDENT GARCIA, INTERIOR MINISTER AGUSTIN MANTILLA, TWO SENIOR LEADERS OF THE RULING AMERICAN POPULAR REVOLUTIONARY ALLIANCE (APRA), AND BY AN UNIDENTIFIED MRTA MEMBER.</p></body></html>