<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0099"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0099"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0099</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0099</p><p>BOGOTA, 7 JUL 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] COLOMBIAN OFFICIALS REPORT THAT GUERRILLAS PRESUMED TO BE MEMBERS OF THE PRO-CASTRO ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION (ELN) TODAY ONCE AGAIN DYNAMITED THE CANO LIMON-COVENAS OIL PIPELINE, COLOMBIA'S MAJOR OIL PIPELINE.</p><p>AN ECOPETROL [COLOMBIAN PETROLEUM ENTERPRISE] SPOKESMAN SAID THAT THE EXPLOSION TOOK PLACE AT KM - 102 OF THE PIPE NEAR BENADIA IN ARAUCA INTENDANCY, IN THE EASTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THIS ATTACK TAKES PLACE 25 DAYS AFTER A PREVIOUS GUERRILLA ACTION, WHICH INTERRUPTED THE PUMPING OF CRUDE THROUGH THE 780 - KM LONG PIPELINE. ON 16 JUNE, THE ELN DESTROYED THE CANO LIMON-COVENAS OIL TERMINAL ON COLOMBIA'S ATLANTIC COAST, IN WHAT IS CONSIDERED THE MOST SERIOUS ATTACK AGAINST COLOMBIA'S PETROLEUM INDUSTRY IN ITS HISTORY. SINCE THAT TIME, COLOMBIA HAS BEEN FORCED TO SUSPEND AN AVERAGE OF 180,000 OF THE 220,000 DAILY BARRELS OF CRUDE PIPED THROUGH THE COUNTRY'S LEADING PIPELINE.</p><p>TODAY'S ATTACK IS THE 25TH DURING 1989, AND THE THIRD THIS WEEK, THE ECOPETROL SPOKESMAN REVEALED. THE ELN'S ATTACKS HAVE REDUCED THE NATION'S HYDROCARBON PRODUCTION THIS YEAR BY 20 PERCENT, WITH LOSSES EXCEEDING $180 MILLION. THE ELN HAS DYNAMITED THE CANO LIMON-COVENAS PIPELINE 125 TIMES SINCE JANUARY 1988, CAUSING LOSSES OF MORE THAN $450 MILLION AS A RESULT OF OIL SPILLS, HALTED PRODUCTION, THE SUSPENSION OF EXPORTS, AND ECOLOGICAL DAMAGE, THE ECOPETROL SPOKESMAN ADDED.</p><p>DURING THE 25 YEARS OF ITS ARMED STRUGGLE, THE ELN -- LED BY FORMER SPANISH PRIEST MANUEL PEREZ -- HAS INTENSIFIED ITS ATTACKS AGAINST THE PETROLEUM INFRASTRUCTURE, ARGUING THAT IT PERPETRATES THESE ACTIONS "TO PREVENT THE EXPLOITATION OF COLOMBIA'S NATURAL RESOURCES."</p></body></html>