<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0041"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0041"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0041</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0041</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 12 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [STATEMENT BY SALVADORAN DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL RAFAEL HUMBERTO LARIOS LOPEZ] [TEXT] BRAVE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, ON THIS OCCASION AND AS DEFENSE AND PUBLIC SECURITY MINISTER, PROFESSIONAL SOLDIER, AND A SALVADORAN CITIZEN, I AM VERY PLEASED TO BE ABLE TO BRING YOU THIS MESSAGE. ABOVE ALL, THIS MESSAGE CONVEYS OUR MOST RESPECTFUL AND THOUGHFUL GREETINGS TO THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND OUR HOPES THAT, DURING THIS TROUBLED TIME, YOU WILL REMAIN CALM AND HAVE CONFIDENCE AND FAITH IN YOUR ARMED FORCES.</p><p>A FEW MOMENTS AGO, YOU HEARD THE VOICE OF THE FIRST SOLDIER OF OUR GLORIOUS ARMED FORCES, THE VOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC AND GENERAL COMMANDER OF THE ARMED FORCES. AT THIS TIME, I WISH TO EXPRESS THE FEELINGS OF EACH AND EVERY MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES, OF THE INSTITUTION THAT AT THIS MOMENT IS BEING INSTITUTIONALLY CHALLENGED. WE, AS SOLDIERS BORN OF THIS PEOPLE TO SERVE THIS PEOPLE, EXPRESS OUR SOLIDARITY WITH THAT MESSAGE OF CONFIDENCE, SECURITY, AND HOPE SENT BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC.</p><p>EVERYONE HAS HEARD ABOUT WHAT HAS HAPPENED IN OUR COUNTRY IN THE PAST 48 HOURS. NO CONSCIENTIOUS CITIZEN, NO REAL SALVADORAN, IS UNAWARE OF THE AGGRESSION TO WHICH WE HAVE ONCE AGAIN BEEN SUBJECTED BY THE F M L N'S [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FORCES] TREACHEROUS TERRORIST FORCES. EVIDENTLY, THIS ACTION, THIS TERRORORIST ACTION, IS ONLY AIMED AT CAUSING PAIN AND SORROW FOR THE PEOPLE AND AT DESTROYING THE REAL FEELINGS, INSPIRATION, AND WILL OF THE PEOPLE. ON THIS OCCASION, THE ARMED FORCES STEP FORWARD TO DEFEND THE PEOPLE, THE PEOPLE WHO ARE DEMANDING THE OBLITERATION OF THESE TERRORIST AND COWARDLY FORCES.</p><p>THE ATTITUDE OF OUR COURAGEOUS PEOPLE, THE ATTITUDE OF THE PEOPLE WHO TODAY ARE WRITING ONE OF THE MOST BRILLIANT PAGES IN OUR HISTORY, CREATES AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THE ARMED FORCES, GUARANTOR OF SECURITY, ORDER, AND TRANQUILITY, TO SAY: SALVADORAN PEOPLE, THE ARMED FORCES ARE WITH YOU; THE ARMED FORCES ASSUME THEIR PROFESSIONAL DUTY OF DEFENDING THE MOST SACRED INTERESTS OF OUR HOMELAND, OF OUR COUNTRY, EL SALVADOR.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES, AS AN INSTITUTION, HAVE NEVER FORGOTTEN THEIR DUTY AND TODAY REITERATE THEIR ABSOLUTE WILLINGNESS AND DETERMINATION TO MAKE THE BIGGEST SACRIFICE IF THIS BECOMES NECESSARY, SO THAT YOU, SALVADORAN PEOPLE, CAN ASPIRE TO A FUTURE FULL OF HAPPINESS AND WELL-BEING.</p><p>WE PRAISE THE DETERMINATION OF THE PEOPLE. WE APPLAUD AND CONGRATULATE THE PEOPLE FOR THEIR DETERMINATION AND THE STOICISM WITH WHICH THEY, THE BRAVE SALVADORAN CITIZENS, HAVE CONFRONTED THESE MOMENTS OF TRAGEDY AND CHALLENGE.</p><p>WE SAY: SALVADORAN PEOPLE, THIS INSTITUTION -- YOUR ARMED FORCES -- IS AT YOUR SIDE. THE ARMED FORCES ARE WILLING TO SHED THEIR BLOOD AND GIVE THEIR LIVES PRECISELY SO THAT THE CHILDREN OF OUR PEOPLE, SO THAT THE CHILDREN OF OUR CHILDREN, CAN ASPIRE TO A WORTHY, FREE, JUST, AND INDEPENDENT LIFE.</p><p>WE WISH TO CONGRATULATE OUR PEOPLE FOR THEIR ATTITUDE. WE WISH TO CONGRATULATE ALL THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE BECAUSE, WITH THEIR WORDS OF ENCOURAGEMENT SENT TO US THROUGH DIFFERENT MEANS, THE INSTITUTION FEELS STRONGER AND MORE WILLING TO DEFEND THE REAL ASPIRATIONS OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>THIS BRAVE ATTITUDE -- THIS ATTITUDE THAT REFLECTS THE REAL SALVADORANS -- IS, WITHOUT DOUBT, THE STRONGEST RESPONSE AND THE WORST PUNISHMENT THE TERRORIST FORCES COULD RECEIVE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>