<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0091"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0091"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0091</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0091</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 14 NOV 89 (CADENA REVOLUCIONARIA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION; PAY CLOSE ATTENTION. WE HAVE RECEIVED THE FOLLOWING REPORT FROM ZACATECOLUCA, LA PAZ DEPARTMENT:</p><p>WE DENOUNCE -- OUR COMRADES HAVE DENOUNCED -- THE ROLE PLAYED BY THE GREEN CROSS, WHICH HAS BEEN DISLODGING THE POPULATION IN THE FOLLOWING NEIGHBORHOODS: 27 DE SEPTIEMBRE, CHINCHONTEPEC, AND SANTA LUCIA, LOCATED IN NORTHERN ZACATECOLUCA.</p><p>THE GREEN CROSS IS SERVING AS AN INSTRUMENT FOR DMIFA [ARMED FORCES ENGINEERS' MILITARY DETACHMENT] TO DISLODGE THE POPULATION. SOME DMIFA AGENTS ARE WEARING GREEN CROSS UNIFORMS TO DO THAT JOB. THEY GO FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE, IDENTIFYING THEMSELVES WITH GREEN CROSS DOCUMENTS. THEY ARE ASKING FAMILIES ONE BY ONE TO MOVE OUT, TELLING THEM THAT THOSE AREAS WILL BE BOMBED.</p><p>WE URGE ORGANIZATIONS SUCH AS THE RED CROSS, THE GREEN CROSS, AND RESCUE TEAMS NOT TO PERMIT THE USE OF INSIGNIAS, UNIFORMS, AND VEHICLES OF HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS BY ARMY TROOPS.</p><p>THE DISLODGING OF PEOPLE IN SAN SALVADOR AND NOW IN THE 27 DE SEPTIEMBRE NEIGHBORHOOD IN ZACATECOLUCA IS BEING DONE IN ORDER TO PROCEED WITH THE BOMBING OF THESE DENSELY POPULATED CIVILIAN NEIGHBORHOODS.</p></body></html>