<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0014"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0014"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0014</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0014</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 14 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] FIGHTING RAGED ALL DAY LONG IN THE AREA AROUND SAN TERESA HOSPITAL, IN ZACATELUCA, LA PAZ DEPARTMENT. A REPORT SAYS THAT A DMIFA ARMED FORCES ENGINEERS' MILITARY DETACHMENT UNIT WAS AT SANTA TERESA HOSPITAL, AND THAT THE ENTIRE UNIT WAS WIPED OUT. THE SOLDIERS HAD A COMMUNICATIONS RELAY STATION IN THE BUILDING. AS A RESULT OF THE ATTACK, THERE WERE 20 CASUALTIES. AMONG THE CASUALTIES IS A LIEUTENANT WHO WAS THE UNIT CHIEF, AND TWO SERGEANTS. THE COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT WAS TOTALLY DESTROYED.</p><p>THE SITUATION IS NOT AS THE FASCIST CRISTIANI REPORTED IT TO BE. HE SAID THERE WAS ONLY ONE SOLDIER AT THE HOSPITAL RECEIVING MEDICAL TREATMENT. THAT IS TOTALLY FALSE. THE BUILDING HOUSED A GARRISON NOT A HOSPITAL, BECAUSE A DMIFA UNIT AND A COMMUNICATIONS RELAY CENTER WERE THERE. IT WAS A GARRISON.</p><p>WE ARE GOING TO CORRECT OUR REPORT ON THE RESULTS OF THE ATTACK ON THE DMIFA UNIT: 20 SOLDIERS WERE KILLED AND 10 WERE WOUNDED. IN ALL, THERE WERE 30 CASUALTIES, INCLUDING TWO SERGEANTS AND THE UNIT CHIEF. WE REPEAT: IN AN IMPRESSIVE ATTACK ON A MILITARY POSITION AT SANTA TERESA HOSPITAL--THE BUILDING WAS NO LONGER A HOSPITAL BUT AN ARMY COMMUNICATIONS CENTER--OUR FIGTHTERS ANNIHILATED AND DESTROYED THAT POSITION. THE ARMY SUSTAINED 20 KILLED AND 10 WOUNDED. THE COMMUNICATIONS RELAY STATION WAS TOTALLY DESTROYED.</p></body></html>