<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0061"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0061"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0061</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0061</p><p>BOGOTA, 16 SEP 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 2) -- [TEXT] BOGOTA DID NOT ESCAPE THE TERRORIST ACTIONS OF ORGANIZED CRIMINALS ON FRIDAY NIGHT. TWO NATIONAL POLICE OFFICERS ASSIGNED TO THE DIJIN DIRECTORATE OF JUDIDIAL POLICE AND INVESTIGATIONS INTELLIGENCE CORPS WERE SHOT TO DEATH AS THEY PASSED BY ON A DIJIN MOTORCYCLE IN FRONT OF A HOME IN WESTERN BOGOTA.</p><p>THE CRIMINALS INTERCEPTED SERGEANT CARLOS JULIO BONILLA, WHO WAS DRIVING THE MOTORCYCLE, AND CORPORAL LUIS ALBERTO CHAVEZ, AS THEY ENTERED THE HOME. BOTH POLICEMEN DIED INSTANTLY. THE PAID ASSASINS FLED IN A MOTORCYCLE AND IN A VEHICLE THAT AWAITED THEM A FEW METERS AWAY, ACCORDING TO WITNESSES.</p><p>AUTHORITIES CARRIED OUT AN INTENSE OPERATION IN THE CITY TO LOCATE THE PERPETRATORS OF THIS LATEST CRIME.</p><p>ELSEWHERE, SEVERAL ARMED INDIVIDUALS SHOT REPEATEDLY AT THE NEWSPAPER EL SIGLO'S FACILITIES. THIS IS A NEW ACT OF HARASSMENT AGAINST THE MEDIA. EL SIGLO EDITOR HIPOLITO HINCAPIE WAS INTERVIEWED.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [HINCAPIE] THE INCIDENT TOOK PLACE AT 2120. INDIVIDUALS IN A BLUE RENAULT 12 FIRED SEVERAL TIMES AT THE FACILITIES. THE FACILITIES ARE AS THEY WERE PRIOR TO 2120, AND THE EMPLOYEES ARE WORKING AS USUAL. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE DAMAGE WAS MINOR AND, FORTUNATELY, THERE WERE NO VICTIMS, THANKS TO THE PROMPT REACTION OF THE MARINES GUARDING THE FACILITIES.</p></body></html>