<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0036"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0036"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-02-07"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0036</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0036</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 7 FEB 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [STATION COMMENTARY] [TEXT] IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO HAVE FREE ELECTIONS IN A COUNTRY WHERE REPRESSION PREVAILS. IN AN INDISPUTABLE EFFORT OF CLEAR FLEXIBILITY AND WILLINGNESS FOR PEACE, THE FMLN PRESENTED A PEACE PROPOSAL TO JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE'S GOVERNMENT AND THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES HIGH COMMAND. THAT PROPOSAL IS AIMED AT TURNING ELECTIONS INTO A CONTRIBUTION TO PEACE.</p><p>TWO WEEKS HAVE PASSED SINCE WE PRESENTED OUR PROPOSAL, AND NEITHER THE GOVERNMENT NOR THE ARMED FORCES HAVE OFFICIALLY RESPONDED TO THE FMLN INITIATIVE. THAT INITIATIVE HAS HAD THE SUPPORT OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY AND OF OUR COUNTRY'S LARGEST GROUPS.</p><p>NEITHER THE GOVERNMENT NOR THE HIGH COMMAND HAVE RESPONDED TO THE PEOPLE'S OUTCRY AND WORLD EXPECTATIONS, WHICH ARE AWAITING A POSITIVE RESPONSE TO OUR PROPOSAL.</p><p>ON THE CONTRARY, THE GOVERNMENT, ITS ARMED FORCES, AND THE MEMBERS OF THEIR SQUADS DISGUISED IN CIVILIAN CLOTHES CONTINUE THEIR DIRTY WAR AGAINST THE PEOPLES MOVEMENT AND THEIR WIDESPREAD WAR IN THE COUNTRYSIDE.</p><p>THE NATIONAL GUARD [WORD INDISTINCT] MURDERED UNIVERSITY STUDENT MARIO FLORES, WHOSE BODY WAS LEFT ON A HIGHWAY NEAR THE PORT OF ACAJUTLA. MEANWHILE, NATIONAL POLICE MEMBERS WHO WERE DRESSED IN CIVILIAN CLOTHES SEIZED UNIVERSITY STUDENTS HUGO MARTINEZ AND RAUL RAMIREZ, WHO ARE STILL MISSING.</p><p>JAIME ESTEVEZ, A MEMBER OF THE BREAD, LAND, WORK, AND FREEDOM MOVEMENT [MPTL] WAS TAKEN TO THE USULUTAN JAIL TO BE MURDERED AND THE CRIME WAS SUPPOSED TO GO UNNOTICED.</p><p>MEANWHILE, ACCORDING TO REPORTS FROM MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL FEDERATION OF AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK COOPERATIVES, FENACOA, ON 31 JANUARY, OROMONTIQUE BATTALION TROOPS OF THE 6TH INFANTRY BRIGADE COMMANDED BY LIEUTENANT PACHECHO MURDERED PEASANTS VICTOR MANUEL VASQUEZ AND RAFAEL ROMERO. THE TROOPS FAKED A CLASH AT HORCONES DE BERLIN CANTON TO MURDER THOSE PEASANTS.</p><p>ON 4 JANUARY, LUCIA AND MARIA ASUNCION ROMERO, AND MINOR PEDRO GONZALEZ ERAZO WERE CAPTURED AT THE AHUACHAPAN BUS STATION BY ARMY TROOPS COMMANDED BY MURDERER COLONEL CANAS.</p><p>THE PEASANT COMMUNAL ASSOCIATION, ACC, CONTINUES TO DEMAND THE RELEASE OF PEASANTS BARTOLO RODRIGUEZ, WHO WAS CAPTURED ON 27 JANUARY, AND [NAME INDISTINCT] CAPTURED ON 2 FEBRUARY BY TROOPS OF COLONAL ORLANDO MONTANO OF THE 6TH INFANTRY BRIGADE.</p><p>THE NONGOVERNMENTAL SALVADORAN HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION REPORTED THE SEIZURE OF MACLOVIA GONZALEZ, VIRGILIO ORTIZ CRUZ, AND VIRGILIO ORTIZ, WHO WERE CAPTURED ON 4 JANUARY BY MILITARY DETACHMENT NO 4 TROOPS AT EL MAYUELO CANTON, MORAZAN DEPARTMENT. THEIR WHEREABOUTS ARE STILL UNKNOWN.</p><p>THE MPTL ALSO REPORTED THAT ROBERTO MENA WAS CAPTURED BY ATONAL BATTALION TROOPS AT 1600 ON 5 FEBRUARY.</p><p>THERE CANNOT BE FREE AND CLEAN ELECTIONS IN THIS ATMOSPHERE OF REPRESSION. THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMY HIGH COMMAND CONTINUE TERRIFYING AND KILLING THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. THE PEOPLES' WILL CANNOT BE EXPRESSED THROUGH THEIR VOTE WITH SUCH AN ATMOSPHERE OF REPRESSION, ESPECIALLY IF THE GROUPS DISPUTING POWER ARE A BUNCH OF MURDERERS AND CORRUPT MEN.</p></body></html>