<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0016"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0016"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0016</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0016</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 3 MAY 90 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BY MODERATOR AND REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [CRISTIANI] ALTHOUGH IT ORGANICALLY DEPENDS ON THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH, THE COMMISSION IS AN OFFICIAL JUSTICE ORGANIZATION AND THE JUDGE CAN INSTRUCT IT OR REQUEST THAT IT INVESTIGATE X, Y, OR Z, IN ADDITION TO WHAT IT SUBMITTED WHEN THE CASE WAS PASSED OVER TO THE JUDGE.</p><p>[MODERATOR] PABLO GUILLERMO [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>[REPORTER] MR. PRESIDENT, THE NEWSPAPER LA JORNADA OF MEXICO STATED YESTERDAY THAT COLONEL ORLANDO ZEPEDA HAD LEFT THE COUNTRY THIS WEEKEND WITH ALL HIS FAMILY AND WITH A CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT OF LUGGAGE, WHICH WOULD INDICATE THAT HE DID NOT GO ON A MERE VACATION. I WOULD LIKE TO KNOW THE OFFICIAL VERSION OF THIS. [LAUGHTER]</p><p>[CRISTIANI] YOU SAY HE LEFT WHEN?</p><p>[REPORTER] YESTERDAY.</p><p>[CRISTIANI] WELL, ONLY IF HE LEFT VERY HURRIEDLY AFTER MIDDAY. I WAS WITH HIM HERE YESTERDAY DISCUSSING OTHER THINGS, AS WELL AS MILITARY MATTERS WITH THE DEFENSE MINISTER AND DEPUTY MINISTERS. HE WAS PRESENT. UNLESS HE MAY HAVE LEFT. I DOUBT IT VERY MUCH, BECAUSE I HAD A MEETING WITH THEM TO SEE THE ORDER OF THE MONTH ON SATURDAY AND HE WAS PRESENT. PARDON ME, THAT WAS TUESDAY WHEN WE HAD THE ORDER FOR THE END OF THE MONTH. I UNDERSTAND HE WAS PRESENT AT THE COMMANDERS MEETING. IF HE LEFT LAST WEEKEND, IT MUST HAVE BEEN FOR THE WEEKEND AND HE RETURNED ON MONDAY.</p><p>[MODERATOR] MARIA CORTINA, NOTIMEX.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR. PRESIDENT, IN WHAT WAY WOULD A CUT IN MILITARY AID AFFECT THE PEACE PROCESS?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] WE ARE CURRENTLY SEEING OPPOSITE SIGNS FROM THE FMLN IN TERMS OF WANTING TO TRULY PUT AN END TO VIOLENCE. A SIGN OF THIS WAS THE NIGHT OF 1 MAY WHEN THE ATTACKS WERE CARRIED OUT. THIS WOULD INDICATE THAT, ALTHOUGH NOT ALL THE FMLN COMMAND, THAT IS THE FIVE GROUPS, SOME GROUPS SEEM TO RESIST A POLITICAL SOLUTION AND FAVOR A MILITARY SOLUTION, AS THEY HAVE INSISTED ON PURSUING FOR 10 YEARS. THOSE GROUPS COULD VIEW A CUT IN MILITARY AID AS A SIGN OF WEAKENING OF THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES, AND THAT CONSEQUENTLY THEY WOULD HAVE A BETTER CHANCE OF BEING SUCCESSFUL FOLLOWING THE MILITARY PATH. THAT COULD INCREASE THE POTENTIAL OF A MILITARY SOLUTION IN THE MINDS OF SOME. THIS COULD REDUCE THE POTENTIAL OF SERIOUSLY CONSIDERING A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE CONFLICT.</p><p>[MODERATOR] RAUL MONGE, CADENA RADIO CENTRO.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR. PRESIDENT, HOW DO YOU VIEW THE GUERRILLAS' MORALE AT THIS MOMENT?</p><p>[CRISTIANI] WELL, I OBVIOUSLY CANNOT BUT BELIEVE THAT THE MORALE OF THE GUERRILLAS AFTER THE OFFENSIVE MUST HAVE DROPPED CONSIDERBLY. THIS IS ESPECIALLY SO SINCE THERE WAS A LARGE SACRIFICE ON THEIR PART IN THE FORM OF CASUALTIES AND THE FACT THAT THE OFFENSIVE DID NOT REPRESENT A SUCCESS, DESPITE THEIR CLAIM THAT IT WAS ONLY A SHOW OF FORCE, WHICH IS A LOT OF MALARKEY. ALL THE PRIOR DOCUMENTS INDICATED THAT THIS WAS A LARGE-SCALE OPERATION TO THE HILT SEEKING TO OVERTHROW THE GOVERNMENT AND TO CROWN A MILITARY VICTORY. WHAT I BELIEVE WAS OF EVEN GREATER IMPACT WAS THAT THEY REALIZED THAT THE PEOPLE OF EL SALVADOR DO NOT SUPPORT THEM AND DO NOT SUPPORT THE PATH OF VIOLENCE. IN THAT SENSE, THEIR HOPES OF A POPULAR INSURRECTION WERE SHATTERED. ON THE CONTRARY, THE PEOPLE DID NOT SUPPORT THE FMLN AND INSTEAD TURNED THEIR BACKS ON THEM AND SHOWED THAT THEY DO NOT SUPPORT VIOLENCE. THIS MUST HAVE CAUSED AN IMPACT ON THE FMLN AND ITS MEMBERS. I RECENTLY READ IN A VENEZUELAN NEWSPAPER STATEMENTS BY A COMMANDER, WHOSE PSEUDONYM IS GUSTAVO, WHO SAID THAT THEY WERE TIRED OF FOLLOWING THE PATH OF VIOLENCE AND THAT A SOLUTION HAD TO BE FOUND. THIS DEMONSTRATES THAT SOME OF THEIR RANKS ARE GETTING TIRED OF THE MILITARY PATH. THESE ARE INDICATIONS OF WHAT COULD BE. WHAT I WANT TO CLEAR UP ONCE AND FOR ALL IS THAT WE DO NOT REACT TO WHETHER OR NOT THE FMLN FEELS STRONG OR FEELS WEAK. WE KNOW THAT 100 TERRORISTS IN A COUNTRY CAN CAUSE DESTRUCTION AND DEATH AND THAT IS WHAT WE ARE TRYING TO AVOID, ALTHOUGH 100 TERRORISTS ARE NOT A FORCE THAT WILL DESTABILIZE A GOVERNMENT. HOWEVER, THE DAMAGE THAT THEY CAUSE IS SUCH THAT WE DO NOT WANT IT TO CONTINUE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>