<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0076"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0076"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-03"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0076</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0076</p><p>BOGOTA, 3 SEP 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] OFFICIAL SOURCES ANNOUNCED THAT A U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT HERCULES C-123 CARGO PLANE WAS PARTIALLY DESTROYED EARLY THIS MORNING WHEN AN INCENDIARY BOMB EXPLODED AT THE MONTERIA AIRPORT. MONTERIA IS THE CAPITAL OF CORDOBA DEPARTMENT AND IT IS LOCATED 490 KM NORTH OF BOGOTA.</p><p>A SPOKESMAN FOR THE MONTERIA POLICE ADVISED AFP VIA TELEPHONE THAT THE FRONT PART OF THE PLANE, AS WELL AS THE COCKPIT, WERE BURNED WHEN A BOMB, PLANTED BY UNIDENTIFIED PERSONS, EXPLODED. NO VICTIMS WERE REPORTED.</p><p>THE U.S. EMBASSY IN BOGOTA CONFIRMED THAT THE PLANE WAS "SERIOUSLY DAMAGED" BY THE FLAMES; HOWEVER, THE EMBASSY DID NOT SPECIFY THE ORIGIN OF THE FIRE. ACCORDING TO EMBASSY SPOKESMAN PETER SAMSON, THE PLANE IS THE PROPERTY OF THE U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT'S INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS MATTERS (INM).</p><p>THE PLANE, WHICH WAS RETURNING TO THE UNITED STATES AFTER FULFILLING A MISSION IN PERU, HAD BEEN PARKED AT THE MONTERIA AIRPORT FOR THE PAST 2 WEEKS. THE PLANE WAS FORCED TO LAND IN MONTERIA AFTER ONE OF ITS ENGINES FAILED, THE EMBASSY SPOKESMAN ADDED.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE MONTERIA POLICE, THE FIRE BROKE OUT AFTER AN EXPLOSION WAS HEARD. THE FIREMEN INTERVENED QUICKLY TO PREVENT THE FIRE FROM SPREADING AND COMPLETELY DESTROYING THE PLANE.</p><p>THE FIRE BROKE OUT AT 0430 (0930 GMT), A FEW HOURS BEFORE TWO C-130 PLANES--U.S. MILITARY CARGO PLANES--ARRIVED AT BOGOTA AIR FORCE BASE WITH MILITARY MATERIEL SENT TO HELP FIGHT THE BATTLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING LAUNCHED BY THE COLOMBIAN AUTHORITIES.</p></body></html>