<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0027"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0027"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0027</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0027</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 6 DEC 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF OF THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES, BY UNIDENTIFIED SALVADORAN AND INTERNATIONAL REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [REPORTER] COLONEL, WHAT SPECIFIC MEASURES HAVE BEEN TAKEN AGAINST THE MISSILES?</p><p>[PONCE] I BELIEVE THAT SPECIFIC MEASURES WE HAVE ADOPTED HAVE GIVEN US GOOD RESULTS. THEY HAVE LAUNCHED FOUR SA-7'S IN THE ZACATECOLUCA AREA; HOWEVER, OUR PILOTS HAVE SKILLFULLY AVOIDED THE ROCKETS OR MISSILES, WHICH DID NOT HIT THEIR AIRCRAFT. WE ARE ADOPTING MEASURES THAT ARE GIVING RESULTS. WE MUST ALSO CLARIFY THAT WE FEEL THAT SINCE THE LIGHT AIRCRAFT TRANSPORTING THESE MISSILES DID NOT HAVE A NORMAL LANDING AND THE MISSILES WERE NOT IN THEIR ORIGINAL PACKAGE, IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THEY SUFFERED SOME FUNCTIONAL DAMAGE WHEN THE PLANE CRASHED SOUTH OF ZACATECOLUCA. THANK GOD, [WORDS INDISTINCT]</p><p>[REPORTER] DO YOU THINK THAT THE SUMMIT OF CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS CAN OPEN NEW POSSIBILITIES FOR RESUMING TALKS WITH THE FMLN? DO YOU THINK THAT THIS SUMMIT COULD BRING ABOUT NEW STEPS TOWARD A DIALOGUE?</p><p>[PONCE] YES, I THINK THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT SINCE THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR HAS OPENED THIS POSSIBILITY AND IS WILLING TO TALK ON A PERMANENT BASIS. I THINK THAT AT THIS TIME IT WOULD BE A POSITIVE STEP IN THE POLITICAL FIELD.</p><p>HOWEVER, IN THE MILITARY FIELD, WHERE THE FMLN HAS ATTACKED US IN AN IRRATIONAL AND VIOLENT WAY IN THE MAIN CITIES, THE ARMED FORCES IS REPLYING, AND WE WILL CONTINUE TO REPLY. WE WILL COMPLETELY DEFEAT THE FMLN.</p><p>BASED ON THE INFORMATION WE HAVE RECEIVED FROM OUR UNITS, WE HAVE INFLICTED 1,902 DEAD, 1,209 WOUNDED, AND 44 TERRORISTS HAVE DESERTED AND TURNED THEMSELVES IN TO THE AUTHORITIES. WE HAVE CONFISCATED A LARGE NUMBER OF WEAPONS. I WILL GIVE YOU THE QUANTITIES: 25 ANTIAIRCRAFT MISSILES -- ONE RED EYE AND 24 SA-7'S -- 915 RIFLES, 12 CARBINES, 11 SHOTGUNS, 156 GRENADE AND ROCKET LAUNCHERS, 49 MORTARS, 45 MACHINEGUNS, 41 SUBMACHINEGUNS, 67 REVOLVERS AND PISTOLS, 23 RADIOS, AND A LARGE AMOUNT OF EXPLOSIVES.</p><p>I MUST STRESS THAT THE FMLN HAS GATHERED ALL THESE WEAPONS WITH SUPPPORT FROM ABROAD. IT IS A LARGE ARSENAL.</p><p>I MUST ALSO NOTE THAT MANY OF THE WEAPONS WE FOUND HAD BEEN ABANDONED, WHICH MEANS THAT THE FMLN HAS HAD MANY DESERTIONS. WE HAVE ALSO FOUND WEAPONS IN HOUSES, THANKS TO THE COLLABORATION OF THE CIVILIAN POPULATION.</p><p>WE HAVE ALSO LEARNED THAT THE FMLN HAS KIDNAPPED A LARGE NUMBER OF YOUTHS HERE IN THE SAN SALVADOR AREA AND MAINLY IN USULUTAN, AS WELL AS IN CHALATENANGO. THIS MEANS THAT THEY ARE TRYING TO FILL IN THE NUMBER OF CASUALTIES THEY HAVE SUFFERED WITH YOUTHS. THIS ALSO MEANS THAT THEIR EFFICIENCY WILL BE VERY LOW.</p><p>[REPORTER] I DO NOT KNOW IF YOU HAVE SEEN OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS A LEAFLET ISSUED BY THE AIR FORCE, WHICH WAS DROPPED FROM AIRPLANES AND ALSO DISTRIBUTED ON THE STREETS. THE LEAFLET URGES SALVADORAN PATRIOTS TO DEFEND THEIR HOMELAND, THEIR PROPERTIES, AND LIVES. IT ALSO SAYS THAT IF NECESSARY, TERRORISTS MUST BE KILLED, AS WELL AS THEIR INTERNATIONALIST ALLIES. WHAT IS YOUR OPINION OF THIS LEAFLET? IS IT NOT AN INVITATION TO KILL FOREIGNERS IN THIS COUNTRY?</p><p>[PONCE] I DO NOT THINK SO, BECAUSE THE LEAFLETS MENTION INTERNATIONALISTS, WHO ARE FIGHTING ALONG WITH THE FMLN. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>