<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0056"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0056"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0056</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0056</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 19 MAR 89 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [REPORT] [OSCAR VENANCIO RAMIREZ] [TEXT] DEFENSE MINISTER GENERAL EUGENIO VIDES CASANOVA HAS VISITED LA ALAMEDA ROOSEVELT TO OBSERVE THE VOTING PROCESS. HE ALSO SAID AN INVESTIGATION WILL BE CONDUCTED INTO THE MURDERS OF THREE REPORTERS, TWO SALVADORANS AND A NETHERLANDER. THERE WILL ALSO BE AN INVESTIGATION INTO THE WOUNDING OF A SALVADORAN REPORTER AND A CBS REPORTER.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [VIDES] THIS IS THE SAME QUESTION ASKED [WORDS INDISTINCT]. THE ELECTION PROCESS IS PROCEEDING NORMALLY IN ALL MUNICIPALITIES EXCEPT SEVEN. CLASHES WERE REPORTED IN TWO MUNICIPALITIES AND THE ELECTIONS WERE SUSPENDED IN TWO OTHERS. ONE OF THEM IS EL SAUCE, WITH WHICH COMMUNICATIONS HAVE BEEN CUT OFF. THE OTHER IS SANTA ELENA, WHERE A CLASH OCCURRED. I THINK PEOPLE WILL VOTE HERE LATER. NO VOTING IS TAKING PLACE IN FOUR OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[VIDES] I HAVE NO OTHER INFORMATION. AT THE TIME I DEPARTED, I SENT FOR REPORTS FROM THE HOSPITAL. I WAS TOLD HE DIED, BUT WE HAVE TO GATHER MORE DATA ON HOW THE INCIDENT HAPPENED.</p><p>[REPORTER] [QUESTION INDISTINCT]</p><p>[VIDES] WE HAVE ALWAYS HELD REPORTERS IN THE HIGHEST REGARD. ALL ARMED FORCES MEMBERS HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF THIS. BUT PROBLEMS ARISE WHEN SOME PEOPLE IGNORE CHECKPOINTS AND THE GUARDS TRY TO STOP THEM. I HEREBY APPEAL TO PEOPLE TO OBEY CHECKPOINTS. WE ARE THE FIRST TO REGRET THESE INCIDENTS. WE HAVE VERY GOOD AND CLOSE RELATIONS WITH THE MEDIA AND KNOW [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>[REPORTER] WILL THIS HAVE REPERCUSSIONS?</p><p>[VIDES] SERIOUS REPERCUSSIONS WILL CERTAINLY OCCUR, BUT YOU CAN REST ASSURED THAT WHAT HAPPENED WAS UNINTENTIONAL. SOME PEOPLE IGNORED THE ORDER TO STOP. THE PEOPLE SHOULD BE MORE ALERT AND AWARE OF THE SITUATION BECAUSE OF THE REBELS' ATTACKS. [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>