<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0059"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0059"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0059</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0059</p><p>BOGOTA, 25 SEP 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] THE POLICE HAVE REPORTED THAT THREE TERRORIST ATTACKS HERE IN BOGOTA AND IN THE CARIBBEAN PORT OF CARTAGENA LEFT TWO DEAD AND THREE INJURED.</p><p>THE MOST SERIOUS INCIDENT TOOK PLACE AT THE HISTORICAL BEACH RESORT WHERE A BOMB EXPLODED ON THE 6TH FLOOR OF THE HILTON HOTEL KILLING TWO PEOPLE AND SERIOUSLY INJURING ANOTHER.</p><p>ALMOST SIMULTANEOUSLY ANOTHER BOMB EXPLODED IN FRONT OF A BANK IN ANOTHER PART OF CARTAGENA, PARTIALLY DESTROYING THE BUILDING AND INJURING A GUARD AND A PASSERBY.</p><p>MEANWHILE, IN BOGOTA, A BOMB EXPLODED AT A BRANCH OF THE CITY'S ELECTRIC ENERGY ENTERPRISE IN THE SUBURB OF QUIRIGUA. THE COMPANY'S OFFICES WERE DESTROYED, AND APPROXIMATELY 50 NEIGHBORING RESIDENCES WERE DAMAGED BY THE BLAST.</p><p>ACCORDING TO A GUARD AT THE COMPANY, WHO ESCAPED UNHURT, TWO INDIVIDUALS WHO WERE PASSING BY THE BUILDING PLACED THE EXPLOSIVES AND FLED. THE GUARD SAID HE BARELY HAD TIME TO GET AWAY FROM THE BOMB BEFORE IT WENT OFF.</p><p>GUESTS AT THE HOTEL, WHERE PRACTICALLY ALL THE WINDOWS WERE DESTROYED, HAD TO BE EVACUATED TO OTHER LODGINGS.</p><p>CARTAGENA HAD UP TO NOW ESCAPED THE WAVE OF DYNAMITE ATTACKS THAT HAVE BEEN TAKING PLACE IN THE COUNTRY'S LARGE CITIES FOR THE PAST SEVERAL WEEKS. AUTHORITIES ATTRIBUTE THE ATTACKS TO DRUG TRAFFICKERS.</p></body></html>