<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0060"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0060"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0060</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0060</p><p>SANTIAGO, 28 FEB 90 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] SOME 9,000 CARABINEROS MEMBERS WILL PARTICIPATE IN A SPECIAL POLICE PLAN BEFORE, DURING, AND AFTER THE OFFICIAL TRANSFER OF POWER CEREMONIES IN OUR COUNTRY. THIS WAS REPORTED BY GENERAL ALFREDO NUNEZ ALLENDE, THE CARABINEROS ORDER AND SECURITY DIRECTOR, WHO ALSO DESCRIBED THE LATEST TERRORIST ATTACKS AS ISOLATED EVENTS WHICH ARE UNDER CONTROL.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [NUNEZ ALLENDE] WE WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE SECURITY OF THE POPULATION AND OF THE FOREIGN GUESTS IN KEEPING WITH OUR DUTY REQUIREMENTS. AS FOR THE RECENT ATTACKS, I MUST SAY THEY ARE REGRETTABLE AND I WISH THEY HAD NOT TAKEN PLACE, HOWEVER, THIS KIND OF ACTION HAS BEEN TAKEN INTO CONSIDERATION IN ALL OUR PLANS. WE HAVE ADOPTED ALL THE MEASURES WE THINK ARE APPROPRIATE IN CASE THIS KIND OF ACTIVITY TAKES PLACE. WE WILL ALSO TRY TO PREVENT THIS KIND OF ACTION DURING THE PRESIDENTIAL INAUGURATION SO THAT PEOPLE UNDER OUR PROTECTION WILL NOT BE AFFECTED.</p><p>[UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] WHY HAS TERRORIST ACTIVITY INCREASED IN THE PAST FEW DAYS?</p><p>[NUNEZ ALLENDE] I THINK THAT THIS IS NORMAL WITHIN THE CURRENT PROCESS, IT IS NOT A SPECIFIC FACTOR OR OBJECTIVE. THE ATTACKS ARE IN KEEPING WITH WHAT WE HAVE BEEN OBSERVING IN THE PAST FEW MONTHS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE CARABINEROS ORDER AND SECURITY CHIEF ALSO REPORTED THAT REINFORCEMENTS WILL BE BROUGHT IN TO SANTIAGO FROM OTHER PARTS OF THE COUNTRY, AND HE ADDED THAT THE DISSOLUTION OF THE NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER WILL NOT AFFECT THE NORMAL WORK OF THE CARABINEROS. HE ALSO SAID THAT IN FACE OF THE RECENT TERRORIST ATTACKS, THE APPROPRIATE MEASURES HAVE BEEN ADOPTED. AS FAR AS HE KNEW, HE SAID, THE ARMY WILL NOT PARTICIPATE IN ESTABLISHING ORDER AND SECURITY DURING THE TRANSFER OF POWER CEREMONY; THIS WILL BE EXCLUSIVE RESPONSIBILITY OF CHILEAN CARABINEROS.</p><p>AS FOR THE RECENT TERRORIST ATTACKS, HE SAID THERE IS NO EVIDENCE THAT THEY ARE PART OF A PLAN, ALTHOUGH HE ADMITTED THAT EXTREMIST ACTIVITY HAS INCREASED LATELY. HOWEVER, SUCH ACTIONS ARE WITHIN WHAT WAS EXPECTED. HE SAID THAT THE SECURITY PERSONNEL THAT WILL BE BROUGHT IN BY THE FOREIGN GUESTS HAVE ALREADY COORDINATED THEIR ACTIONS WITH THOSE OF CARABINEROS.</p><p>ON 5 MARCH, THE CARABINEROS WILL ANNOUNCE A DETAILED REPORT ON THE TRANSFER OF POWER CEREMONY AND ON THE MEASURES THAT WILL BE ADOPTED, ESPECIALLY REGARDING THE CIRCULATION OF CARS. THE SECURITY PLAN WILL BE SIMILAR TO THE ONE USED DURING POPE JOHN PAUL II'S VISIT TO CHILE.</p></body></html>