<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0047"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0047"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0047</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0047</p><p>BOGOTA, 29 OCT 89 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT HAS EXTRADITED TO THE UNITED STATES FIVE [NUMBER AS RECEIVED] INDIVIDUALS WITHIN THE LAST FEW HOURS, INCLUDING JOSE RAFAEL AVELLO SILVA, ALSO KNOWN AS EL MONO AVELLO. THE AUTHORITIES REPORTED THAT AVELLO IS WANTED BY A U.S. COURT FOR COMMITING MANY CRIMES, INCLUDING CONSPIRACY AND COMPLICITY IN CRIMES AGAINST THE U.S. ECONOMY.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS REOPENED THE PROCESS OF EXTRADITION VIA ADMINISTRATIVE CHANNELS AFTER THE LAW ON EXTRADITIONS WAS STRUCK DOWN BY THE SUPREME COURT.</p><p>THE AUTHORITIES REPORTED THAT EL MONO AVELLO, WHO IS THE LEADING FIGURE IN THE SO-CALLED MEDELLIN CARTEL, WAS EXTRADITED THIS MORNING AT 0530. HE LEFT ABOARD A U.S. DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION PLANE.</p><p>THE FOLLOWING ARE AWAITING EXTRADITION: GUILLERMO BONO DELGADO; MANUEL JULIAN PALMA; VICTOR EDUARDO VERA MOSQUERA; COMMERCIAL PILOT RICARDO DE LA CUESTA MARQUEZ; ROBERT JAMES SOKOLOWSKY SALAK; NELSON CUEVAS RAMIREZ; AND EVARISTO PORRAS.</p><p>THE COLOMBIAN AUTHORITIES ALSO REPORTED THAT EMILIO REYNOSA AGUILAR WAS EXPELLED YESTERDAY FROM THE COUNTRY. HE IS WANTED BY THE PERUVIAN COURTS, AND THERE WAS ALSO A REQUEST FOR HIS EXTRADITION. HOWEVER, THE COLOMBIAN AND PERUVIAN GOVERNMENTS AGREED THAT IT WAS BEST TO EXPEL REYNOSA AGUILAR FROM COLOMBIA. HE IS WANTED BY TWO LIMA COURTS FOR HELPING PRISONERS ESCAPE AND FOR OTHER CRIMES.</p><p>ON 6 SEPTEMBER, PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS EXTRADITED ECONOMIST EDUARDO MARTINEZ ROMERO TO A COURT IN ATLANTA, GEORGIA. THE U.S. AUTHORITIES CHARGED MARTINEZ ROMERO WITH LAUNDERING APPROXIMATELY $1.2 BILLION FROM THE SALE OF ILLEGAL DRUGS.</p><p>LATER, AT 0330 ON 14 SEPTEMBER, THE FOLLOWING WERE EXTRADITED: ANA ELENA BEATRIZ RODRIGUEZ TAMAYO, EDUARDO PELAEZ ROLDAN, AND ITALIAN CITIZEN ROBERTO VICTOR CARLINI AROCA.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT OF VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS DECIDED TO CARRY OUT ADMINISTRATIVE EXTRADITIONS ON 18 AUGUST, FOLLOWING THE ASSASSINATIONS OF COLONEL WALDEMAR FRANKLIN QUINTERO, COMMANDER OF THE ANTIOQUIA POLICE, AND LUIS CARLOS GALAN, A SENATOR AND PRESIDENTIAL HOPEFUL FOR THE LIBERAL PARTY.</p></body></html>