<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0022"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0022"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0022</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0022</p><p>BOGOTA, 19 MAY 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] OUT OF THE TEN CANDIDATES RUNNING FOR THE COLOMBIAN PRESIDENCY, THE FOUR WHO HAVE THE BEST CHANCES OF WINNING HAVE INSERTED IN THEIR GOVERNMENT PLATFORMS SOLUTIONS TO THE CRISIS OF VIOLENCE THAT HAS TAKEN HOLD OF THE COUNTRY, CAUSED MAINLY BY THE NARCOTRAFFICKING MAFIAS AND THE GUERRILLA GROUPS.</p><p>FOR LIBERAL CESAR GAVIRIA TRUJILLO, "NONVIOLENT SOLUTIONS" MUST BE FOUND THROUGH A CONDITIONED DIALOGUE WITH THE GUERRILLAS AND BY STRENGTHENING JUSTICE TO CONFRONT THE NARCOTRAFFICKERS "BECAUSE EXTRADITION CANNOT BE THE ONLY PATH TO FIGHT THIS CRIME."</p><p>GAVIRIA, 43, WHO ACCORDING TO THE POLLS IS THE FAVORITE TO SUCCEED VIRGILIO BARCO AS PRESIDENT AFTER THE 27 MAY ELECTIONS, HAS MADE THE PROBLEMS OF THE GUERRILLAS AND DRUG MAFIAS THE TWO MAIN ISSUES IN HIS GOVERNMENT PLATFORM.</p><p>REGARDING THE ARMED REBELS, HE INSISTS THAT NONVIOLENT SOLUTIONS MUST BE FOUND AND PROMISES TO "TAKE INTO CONSIDERATION" THE MERITS OF WHAT HAS BEEN TESTED UP TO NOW.</p><p>"THE DIALOGUE WITH THE ARMED REBELS IS A CONCESSION THAT HAS BEEN MADE TO THEM, AND FOR THIS REASON SOCIETY HAS EVERY RIGHT TO ESTABLISH CONDITIONS," GAVIRIA STATED. "THUS," HE ADDED, "THE DIALOGUE WILL PREVENT THE GUERRILLAS FROM HAVING A POLITICAL PROTAGONIST ROLE AND WILL AVERT THE JUSTIFICATION OF VIOLENCE."</p><p>SOCIAL CONSERVATIVE RODRIGO LLOREDA CAICEDO, 47, INSISTS THAT "THE SURRENDER OF THE MAFIA LORDS MUST BE ACHIEVED" AND THAT THIS "SHOULD INCLUDE PENALTIES FOR THE CRIMES COMMITTED, ECONOMIC COMPENSATION, AND THE CERTAINTY THAT COLOMBIA WILL NOT CONTINUE TO LEND ITSELF TO PRODUCE AND EXPORT DRUGS."</p><p>LLOREDA CAICEDO IS OPPOSED TO THE EXTRADITION OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS TO THE UNITED STATES, AND HE OFFERS TO "STRENGTHEN JUSTICE" AND TO CHANGE PROCEDURES SO AS TO SURROUND JUDGES WITH GUARANTEES, ALL WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF A CONSTITUTIONAL REFORM THROUGH A PLEBISCITE TO CONVOKE A NATIONAL CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY.</p><p>FOR THE ARMED REBELS, HE OFFERS "A 12-MONTH TERM FOR THEM TO REJOIN CIVILIAN LIFE" AND THE DRAFTING OF "MECHANISMS" FOR THEIR DISBANDING, SUCH AS THE "NATIONAL CIRCUMSCRIPTION" THAT WILL FACILITATE THEIR PARTICIPATION IN THE COUNTRY'S DEMOCRATIC AND POLITICAL LIFE.</p><p>LLOREDA CAICEDO, FOREIGN MINISTER DURING BELISARIO BETANCUR'S ADMINISTRATION AND ONE OF THE PROPONENTS OF THE CONTADORA GROUP TO ATTAIN PEACE IN CENTRAL AMERICA, SAID THAT AN EFFORT MUST BE MADE TO "RECOVER THE MONOPOLY OF THE PUBLIC FORCE AND CONSOLIDATE ITS SOVEREIGN PRESENCE."</p><p>ALVARO GOMEZ HURTADO, 71, A "DISSIDENT" CONSERVATIVE, MAINTAINS THAT WITHOUT THE STRENGTHENING OF MORALS AND THE LAW -- "THE ROOT OF OUR ILLS" -- COEXISTENCE AND PROGRESS WILL NOT BE POSSIBLE. HE PLEDGES TO RESCUE THOSE TWO VALUES.</p><p>GOMEZ HURTADO PRESENTED TO COLOMBIAN VOTERS A FIVE-POINT "AGREEMENT ON BASIC ISSUES," INCLUDING LAW AND MORALS, JUSTICE, ECONOMIC PLANNING, AND ECOLOGY, AS HIS GOVERNMENT PLATFORM IF HE IS ELECTED PRESIDENT ON 27 MAY.</p><p>ANTONIO NAVARRO WOLFF, THE M-19 [19 APRIL MOVEMENT] PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE, WHO REPLACED THE ASSASSINATED CARLOS PIZARRO, BELIEVES THAT SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC EQUILIBRIUM ARE "BASIC" TO REACHING PEACE.</p><p>NAVARRO WOLFF, 41, HAS REITERATED THAT HE DOES NOT AGREE WITH THE EXTRADITION OF DRUG TRAFFICKERS, AND HE ALSO CONDEMNED THE CHAIN OF ATTACKS PERPETRATED BY DRUG TERRORISTS IN THE COUNTRY OVER THE PAST FEW MONTHS.</p><p>REGARDING THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS, HOWEVER, HE SAID THAT THEY REQUIRE "MORE SERIOUS TREATMENT." THEREFORE, IT IS BETTER TO HAVE "A POOR DIALOGUE RATHER THAN A GOOD WAR," AND IF THAT DIALOGUE PRODUCES GOOD RESULTS "WE MUST HOLD ON TO IT," HE SAID.</p><p>THE FOUR CANDIDATES AGREE ON REFORMING THE CONGRESS OF THE REPUBLIC AND THE CONSTITUTION BY CONVOKING A NATIONAL CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY. THEY ALSO SHARE OPINIONS ON THE COUNTRY'S ECONOMIC OPENING TOWARD INTERNATIONAL MARKETS, ACCESS TO FOREIGN INVESTMENT, AND PROMOTION OF AN "AGRO-INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION" WHICH WILL GUARANTEE A REDUCTION OR STABILIZATION OF THE RATE OF INFLATION.</p></body></html>