<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0031"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0031"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0031</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0031</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 29 MAY 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS TODAY STATED THAT CIVILIANS AND SOLDIERS WERE KILLED ON SATURDAY DURING AN ARMED CLASH BETWEEN THE HONDURAN AND SALVADORAN ARMIES.</p><p>THROUGH A COMMUNIQUE, THE GUERRILLAS EMPHASIZED THE ARMED CLASH TOOK PLACE AFTER HONDURAN ARMY TROOPS ATTACKED IN THE HAMLET OF SAN ANDRES, SAN MIGUEL DEPARTMENT, IN NORTHERN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>MEMBERS OF THE COUNTERINSURGENCY ARCE BATTALION, WHO WERE CONDUCTING AN OPERATION NEAR THE HONDURAN BORDER, RESPONDED, SUPPORTED BY TWO AIR FORCE HELICOPTERS.</p><p>THE REPORT BY THE REBELS, BROADCAST FROM SAN SALVADOR BY TEGUCIGALPA RADIO AMERICA, ADDED THAT AN UNNAMED ARCE BATTALION OFFICER WAS KILLED IN THE CLASH.</p><p>THE HONDURAN TROOPS THEN RETREATED TO LOS LLANITOS, INTIBUCA DEPARTMENT, IN HONDURAS, WHERE FOUR SALVADORAN HELICOPTERS LANDED, ACCORDING TO THE FMLN.</p><p>THE REPORT ADDED THAT AS A HONDURAN HELICOPTER EVACUATED THE WOUNDED, IT WAS ATTACKED AND PURSUED 7 KM INSIDE HONDURAN TERRITORY BY A SALVADORAN AIRCRAFT FIRING ROCKETS AND MACHINEGUNS.</p><p>THE HONDURAN SOLDIERS WERE SURROUNDED IN LOS LLANITOS AND TAKEN PRISONER.</p><p>THE FMLN STATED THAT SEVERAL HOMES WERE DAMAGED AND THAT ANIMALS WERE KILLED IN THE SURROUNDING HAMLETS AND VILLAGES.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLA NOTED THAT IT HAD PREVIOUSLY WARNED THAT THE INVOLVEMENT OF THE HONDURAN ARMY "DUE TO U.S. DISPOSITIONS" IN THE EL SALVADOR WAR, WOULD RESULT IN CLASHES AMONG THE ARMIES OF CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES.</p><p>THE FMLN REPORT STATES THAT "IT IS NO SECRET THAT THE OLIGARCHS WHO [WILL ] REACH POWER THROUGH THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA) GOVERNMENT ARE THE SAME PEOPLE INVOLVED IN THE 1969 INVASION OF HONDURAS."</p><p>THE OFFICERS, WHO AT THAT TIME "WERE DIRECTLY RESPONSIBLE FOR KILLINGS, PILLAGING, AND OUTRAGES AGAINST THE HONDURAN PEOPLE, ARE TODAY MEMBERS OF THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES LEADERSHIP," THE COMMUNIQUE ADDS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE FMLN, SATURDAY'S CLASH "WILL SET THE TONE THAT DEFINES THE BORDER CONFLICT FOR A GOVERNMENT OF OLIGARCHS THAT HAS ALWAYS HAD AN EXPANSIONIST ATTITUDE TOWARD HONDURAS."</p><p>[THE COMMUNIQUE] ALSO REQUESTS THAT THE HONDURAN ARMED FORCES NOT GET INVOLVED IN A WAR FOREIGN TO THEM.</p><p>THE HONDURAN MILITARY HAS NEITHER DENIED NOR CONFIRMED THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS REPORTS, AND AN ARMY SPOKESMAN HAS STATED THAT INVESTIGATIONS ARE BEING CONDUCTED.</p><p>THE HONDURAN ARMED FORCES, HAVE ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS, REPORTED THAT THE GUERRILLAS HAVE "HIDEOUTS" IN SALVADORAN REFUGEE CAMPS, AND CONTINUOUSLY ENTER HONDURAN TERRITORY TO REST OR FOR RESUPPLY OF WEAPONS AND AMMUNITION.</p></body></html>