<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0034"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0034"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-22"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0034</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0034</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 22 SEP 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] FIVE GUATEMALAN UNIVERSITY LEADERS THREATENED WITH DEATH HAVE SOUGHT REFUGE IN PANAMA, COSTA RICA, AND MEXICO, WHILE UN HUMAN RIGHTS OBSERVER PETER KOOIJMANS IS IN GUATEMALA CONDUCTING AN INVESTIGATION ON THE INCREASING VIOLENCE IN THIS CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRY.</p><p>ACCORDING TO MEMBERS OF THE UNIVERSITY STUDENT ASSOCIATION [AEU] OF SAN CARLOS DE GUATEMALA UNIVERSITY, THE STUDENTS LEADERS DECIDED TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY BECAUSE OF THE CONTINUOUS THREATS OF DEATH AND PERSECUTION AND DUE TO THE KIDNAPPING AND ASSASSINATION OF FIVE UNIVERSITY STUDENTS.</p><p>THE NAMES OF THE STUDENTS WHO FLED THE COUNTRY ARE BEING KEPT SECRET TO PROTECT THEIR RELATIVES WHO LIVE IN GUATEMALA CITY AND IN THE INTERIOR OF THE COUNTRY, THE SOURCES MAINTAINED.</p><p>THREE OF THE STUDENTS TRAVELED TO PANAMA, ONE TO MEXICO, AND ANOTHER TO COSTA RICA.</p><p>THIS MONTH, THE CORPSES OF FIVE ASSASSINATED AEU LEADERS WERE FOUND IN THE CAPITAL, SOME WITH SIGNS OF TORTURE. SIX OTHER UNIVERSITY STUDENT LEADERS REMAIN KIDNAPPED.</p><p>BELISARIO POLO, STUDENT AFFAIRS DIRECTOR AT THE UNIVERSITY OF PANAMA, TODAY TOLD EFE THAT THE THREE AEU LEADERS ARRIVED IN THE COUNTRY LAST WEEKEND AND ARE LIVING IN PRIVATE HOUSES.</p><p>GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS SAID THEY HAVE NO OFFICIAL REPORTS ON THE DEPARTURE OF THE HIGHEST AEU LEADERS.</p><p>THE DEPARTURE OF THE FIVE UNIVERSITY STUDENTS LEADERS COINCIDES WITH THE VISIT TO GUATEMALA OF PETER KOOIJMANS, WHO YESTERDAY MET GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT VINICIO CEREZO, GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, AND ARMY OFFICERS TO GATHER INFORMATION.</p><p>DURING HIS MEETING WITH GOVERNMENT MINISTER ROBERTO VALLE, KOOIJMANS REQUESTED REPORTS ON THE INVESTIGATIONS THE GOVERNMENT HAS CONDUCTED ON THE CASE OF THE KIDNAPPED STUDENTS, THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL SAID.</p><p>THE KIDNAPPING AND ASSASSINATION OF THE FIVE UNIVERSITY STUDENTS AND THE THREATS AGAINST OTHER AEU MEMBERS HAVE BEEN CONDEMNED BY LEADERS FROM UNIVERSITIES IN MEXICO, HONDURAS, PERU, COLOMBIA, COSTA RICA, EL SALVADOR, NICARAGUA, AND PANAMA.</p><p>UNIVERSITY STUDENTS LEADERS FROM CANADA, ECUADOR, CHILE, AND THE FRG HAVE EXPRESSED THEIR SOLIDARITY AND DEMANDED THAT THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT TO INVESTIGATE THESE ASSASSINATIONAS.</p><p>THE AEU REQUESTED THE HIGHER UNIVERSITY COUNCIL TO SUSPEND CLASSES FOR THE CURRENT SEMESTER IN VIEW OF THE WAVE OF VIOLENCE GUATEMALA IS SUFFERING AND IN VIEW OF THE DEATH THREATS AGAINST THE MAIN STUDENT LEADERS. AS A RESPONSE, THE CSU HAS DECIDED TO LET EACH ACADEMIC SECTION DECIDE THE STRATEGY IT WILL IMPLEMENT TO GET PROTECTION FROM THE VIOLENCE. SEVERAL OF THE STATE UNIVERSITY SCHOOLS HAVE MODIFIED THE EVENING SCHEDULE, AND MOST CLASSES HAVE BEEN REDUCED TO 2-HOURS PERIODS SO STUDENTS CAN RETURN HOME EARLY.</p><p>SEVERAL LABOR UNION ORGANIZATIONS HAVE CONDEMNED THE KIDNAPPING AND ASSASSINATION ON 15 SEPTEMBER OF EDUARDO ANTONIO LOPEZ PALENCIA, A STUDENT WHOSE CORPSE SHOWED SIGNS OF TORTURE.</p></body></html>