<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0095"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0095"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0095</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0095</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 18 MAY 90 (EL GRAFICO) -- [TEXT] GENERAL HECTOR GRAMAJO MORALES HAS REPORTED THAT LAST NIGHT'S TERRORIST ACTS WERE PROBABLY INTENDED TO DAMAGE GUATEMALAN AIR FORCE INSTALLATIONS, BUT ONE OF THE EXPLOSIVE DEVICES WENT OFF PREMATURELY.</p><p>HE ADDED THAT ONE OF THE EXPLOSIVE DEVICES HIT A WALL OF THE AIR FORCE INSTALLATIONS AND THE SHOCK WAVE FROM THE EXPLOSION DAMAGED SOME BUILDINGS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO PRELIMINARY CONCLUSIONS, THE ATTACK WAS PROBABLY A PROPAGANDA PLOY BECAUSE THE DEVICES WERE RUDIMENTARY AND SIMILAR TO FIRECRACKERS.</p><p>THE TERRORIST ACTIONS SEEM TO BE MOTIVATED BY THE FACT THAT THE IRREGULAR GROUPS ARE SHRINKING CONSIDERABLY. EVIDENCE OF THIS IS THE FACT THAT A SUBVERSIVE WHO SURRENDERED ON THE SOUTHERN COAST WAS CARRYING SOME IMPORTANT DOCUMENTS IN WHICH THE GUERRILLAS ADMITTED THAT THEY HAD MADE A BIG EFFORT TO SHOW THEIR PRESENCE, BUT THAT NOTHING SUBSTANTIAL RESULTED AND THEY SUFFERED MANY CASUALTIES INSTEAD, GRAMAJO SAID.</p><p>WHEN QUESTIONED ABOUT THE POSSIBLE IMPACT OF THESE TERRORIST ACTIONS ON THE TALKS BEING HELD IN OSLO, NORWAY, GRAMAJO SAID THAT THOSE WHO ARE TAKING PART IN THE TALKS DO NOT MAINTAIN CONTACT WITH THE GROUPS THAT CARRY OUT THE TERRORIST ACTIONS.</p><p>AMONG THOSE GROUPS, THERE IS ONE FACTION THAT IS CALLED THE INTERNATIONAL MILITANT GROUP. THIS FACTION IS COMPRISED OF PERSONS WHO LOVE ADVENTURE; THESE PEOPLE TAKE ADVANTAGE OF SUBVERSIVE GROUPS TO ENGAGE IN SOME OF THESE ACTIVITIES.</p></body></html>