<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0085"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0085"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0085</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0085</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 13 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [NATIONAL INFORMATION CENTER, SIN] [TEXT] THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR REPORTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL AND NATIONAL COMMUNITY THAT THE TERRORIST OFFENSIVE LAUNCHED BY THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FML]. AGAINST THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE HAS BEEN COUNTERED BY THE ARMED FORCES IN COMPLIANCE WITH ITS CONSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITY TO PROTECT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S LIVES AND POSSESSIONS. THE SITUATION IS UNDER THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES' CONTROL.</p><p>THE FLMN, WITH A TOTAL DISREGARD FOR HUMAN RIGHTS, HAS UNLEASHED AN INDISCRIMINATE ATTACK ON VARIOUS PLACES IN SAN SALVADOR AND ON THE CAPITALS OF FOUR DEPARTMENTS BY FIRING VERY POWERFUL WEAPONS AND KILLING MANY CIVILIANS.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT HEREBY REPORTS THESE TERRORIST ACTIONS BECAUSE THE FMLN ATTACKS ON MILITARY OBJECTIVES HAVE SERIOUSLY ENDANGERED THE LIVES OF THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS OF SALVADORANS.</p><p>THIS FMLN ATTACK IS TOTALLY UNJUSTIFIED BECAUSE THE DIALOGUE PROCESS IS CURRENTLY UNDERWAY AND THE GOVERNMENT HAS ATTENDED THEM WITH TOTAL POLITICAL HONESTY, TRYING TO FIND MECHANISMS AND RATIONAL SOLUTIONS TO THE CONFLICT. THE FMLN NOT ONLY HAS VIOLATED THE AGREEMENTS IT SIGNED IN MEXICO CITY, BUT ALSO IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA. IT HAS ALSO BRAZENLY MOCKED THE FEELINGS AND THE DESIRE FOR PEACE WANTED BY THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>THE FMLN TERRORIST ACTIONS HAVE FORCED THE GOVERNMENT TO MAKE USE OF ITS LEGITIMATE RIGHT TO DEFEND SOCIETY BY USING THE ARMED FORCES WHICH HAS BEEN FULLY SUPPORTED BY THE PEOPLE. SALVADORAN PEOPLE DO NOT WANT TO LOSE THEIR LIBERTY AND FALL INTO THE HANDS OF TOTALITARIAN MARXIST-LENINIST SYSTEMS SUCH AS THE ONE THE FMLN WANTS TO IMPOSE RUTHLESSLY. REPRESENTATIVES FROM VARIOUS COUNTRIES WHO HAVE OBSERVED THE DEVELOPMENT OF THESE INCIDENTS CAN FULLY CONFIRM THE FACTS. THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, IN ADDITION TO BEING VICTIMS OF THE FMLN AGGRESSION, FEEL OUTRAGED BECAUSE THE FMLN STILL HAS THE GALL TO SAY THAT IT IS SPEAKING IN DEFENSE OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE WHO, IN THESE SAD TIMES, FEEL OUTRAGED BY THE TERRORIST GROUP'S IRRATIONAL ATTACK.</p><p>THE GOVERMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR REQUESTS THAT THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY CONDEMN THIS BRUTAL VIOLATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS PERPETRATED BY THE FMLN. IT ALSO ASKS THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TO CONDEMN THE HIDEOUS CRIMES THE FMLN TROOPS ARE PERPETRATING AGAINST CIVILIANS -- WHO FLATLY REFUSE TO HELP THEM -- AND WHO HAVE REJECTED THEM [3 SECOND BREAK IN TRANSMISSION]. THE GOVERNMENT ALSO REQUESTS THAT THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY STRONGLY CONDEMN NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT ORTEGA BECAUSE HE SUPPLIED THE WEAPONS THAT THE TERRORISTS ARE USING TO MASSACRE THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p></body></html>