<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0078"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0078"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0078</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0078</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 28 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION: A REPORT FROM SAN SALVADOR STATES THAT FIGHTING CONTINUES IN THE NORTHERN SECTOR OF THE CITY. OUR FORCES ARE FINDING LITTLE RESISTANCE FROM THE SO-CALLED TROOPS BROUGHT FROM THE INTERIOR OF THE COUNTRY. THE REPORT STATES THAT DURING TODAY'S CLASHES IN CIUDAD DELGADO, LOS ALPES, GUADALUPE, AND SAN PATRICIO NEIGHBORHOODS, THE TREASURY POLICE SUFFERED THREE CASUALTIES. WE INFLICTED TWO CASUALTIES ON THE TREASURY POLICE IN LOS ALPES NEIGHBORHOOD, AND THE 6TH MILITARY DETACHMENT SUFFERED ONE CASUALTY DURING A CLASH IN SAN PATRICIO NEIGHBORHOOD. IT HAS ALSO BEEN REPORTED THAT FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] FORCES HAVE SET UP BARRICADES ON THE NORTHERN TRUNK ROAD AND POWER LINES HAVE BEEN SABOTAGED. AS A RESULT OF THIS SABOTAGE, AN AREA OF SAN SALVADOR DOES NOT HAVE POWER. WE HAVE ALSO LEARNED THAT TWO TRANSFORMERS WERE DESTROYED ON KM 10 OF THE NORTHERN TRUNK ROAD, WHERE BARRICADES WERE ALSO SET UP. THE REPORT ADDS THAT THE ENEMY SHOWED UP 90 MINUTES AFTER THE BARRICADES HAD BEEN SET UP AND HEAVY FIGHTING RESULTED. THE ENEMY TROOPS SUFFERED FOUR CASUALTIES; OUR FORCES HAVE REPORTED THAT THEY HAVE NOT ENCOUNTERED PROBLEMS ON THE NORTHERN TRUNK ROAD. AT THIS HOUR, 1613 [2213 GMT], THE REBEL PRESENCE IN INCREASING ON THE NORTHERN TRUNK ROAD.</p><p>ATTENTION: DURING YESTERDAY'S ATTACK, WITH PEOPLE'S ARTILLERY ON 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE TROOPS, WE INFLICTED EIGHT CASUALTIES. THESE EIGHT CASUALTIES HAVE BEEN CONFIRMED.</p><p>AT NOON TODAY, CLASHES WITH 1ST MILITARY DETACHMENT TROOPS WAS REPORTED IN LA CRUZ HILL, SAN MIGUEL DE MERCEDES JURISDICTION. WE REPEAT: TODAY AT NOON, FIGHTING WAS REPORTED IN LA CRUZ HILL, SAN MIGUEL DE MERCEDES, CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT.</p><p>THIS HAS BEEN THE LATEST REPORT WE HAVE RECEIVED. THERE IS FIGHTING IN CIUDAD DELGADO, LOS ALPES, GUADALUPE, SAN PATRICIO, AND OUR GUERRILLA COLUMNS ARE SPREADING THROUGHOUT THE NORTHERN PART OF THE CITY. IT IS NOW 1615 [2215 GMT] AND THE HIGH COMMAND HAS NOT REACTED. THIS GIVES US AN IDEA OF HOW LOW MORALE IS AMONG THE SOLDIERS IN SAN SALVADOR. THIS NEW BLOW AGAINST THE ENEMY FORCES IN SAN SALVADOR HAS CAUSED THE MORALE OF THE ENEMY FORCES TO DROP EVEN FURTHER.</p><p>ATTENTION: WE HAVE JUST LEARNED THAT THERE HAS BEEN A REBEL AMBUSH IN THE NORTHERN SECTOR OF SAN SALVADOR. THE REPORT ADDS THAT AT 0630 [1230 GMT] TODAY, REBEL FORCES AMBUSHED A VEHICLE TRANSPORTING NATIONAL GUARDSMEN. THE AMBUSH OCCURRED ON KM 9.5 ON THE NORTHERN TRUNK ROAD. THE GUARDSMEN WERE HEADING INTO AN AREA WHERE THE FMLN REBELS HAVE SET UP BARRICADES. A POWERFUL GUAZAPA-TYPE MINE AND RIFLES WERE USED IN THE AMBUSH. AT LEAST 10 CASUALTIES, INCLUDING A NATIONAL GUARD OFFICER, WERE INFLICTED. WE REPEAT: A NATIONAL GUARD OFFICER IS INCLUDED AMONG THE CASUALTIES WE INFLICTED DURING THIS AMBUSH CARRIED OUT ON KM 9.5 ON THE NORTHERN TRUNK ROAD.</p><p>LIKEWISE, WE HAVE LEARNED THAT FIGHTING CONTINUES IN MEJICANOS, AYUTUXTEPEQUE, CIUDAD DELGADO, AND SOYAPANGO. HEAVY FIGHTING IS ALSO BEING REPORTED IN APOPA AND MARIONA. REBEL FORCES ARE SPREADING OUT THROUGHOUT THE NORTHERN AREA OF SAN SALVADOR AND THEY ARE FINDING LITTLE RESISTANCE. AT 1616 [2216 GMT], THIS HAS BEEN THE REPORT RECEIVED AT RADIO VENCEREMOS. WE ARE RECEIVING REPORTS FROM OUR LIBERATED TERRORITORIES, FROM CHALATE [CHALATENANGO], MORAZAN, SAN MIGUEL. GREETINGS TO OUR FORCES IN SAN SALVADOR; ONWARDS FIGHTING COMRADES; OUR PEOPLE ARE SUPPORTING YOU IN SAN SALVADOR.</p></body></html>