<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST2-MUC4-0094"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST2-MUC4-0094"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST2-MUC4-0094</title></head><body><p>TST2-MUC4-0094</p><p>BOGOTA, 20 APR 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [SPEECH] [COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO] [TEXT] FURTHERMORE, WE HAVE HAD TO STRUGGLE AGAINST MANY OF OUR FELLOW COUNTRYMEN'S SKEPTICISM AND PESSIMISM. THE FIRST THING THE GOVERNMENT DID WAS TO CONSOLIDATE ITS BASES TO WAGE A STRUGGLE AGAINST THOSE TERRORIST GROUPS WITH WHATEVER FIRMNESS AND PERSEVERANCE WAS CALLED FOR.</p><p>WE STRENGTHENED INVESTIGATION ORGANIZATIONS, WE CREATED SPECIAL PUBLIC COURTS. WE MODIFIED PENAL LAWS AND PROCEDURES. WE INTRODUCED NEW MEASURES TO ENCOURAGE CITIZEN PARTICIPATION AND TO PROTECT CITIZENS. WE FORMED NEW COMPONENTS TO BOLSTER OUR PUBLIC FORCES. OUR EFFORTS TOOK QUITE A BIT OF TIME. ONE CANNOT PROVIDE AN OVERNIGHT SOLUTION FOR THESE COMPLEX PROBLEMS WITH WHICH YOU ARE ALL VERY FAMILIAR.</p><p>ONCE THE INSTITUTIONS IN CHARGE OF MAINTAINING PUBLIC ORDER AND SECURITY WERE STRENGTHENED, WE CONCENTRATED OUR AVAILABLE RESOURCES ON SOLVING THE CRIMES COMMITTED BY THOSE TERRORIST GROUPS. THE RESULTS HAVE BEEN INCREASINGLY POSITIVE, BOTH IN THE FIGHT AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING -- WHICH IS THE CENTRAL FOCUS OF MANY OF THESE TERRORIST GROUPS -- AND IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST GANGS OF HIRED ASSASSINS AND PRIVATE JUSTICE ORGANIZATIONS, ALSO KNOWN AS DEATH SQUADS.</p><p>NEVER BEFORE HAD WE ACHIEVED SUCH POSITIVE RESULTS. I AM SURE THAT EVEN THOUGH WE WILL FACE DIFFICULTIES AND OBSTACLES, WE WILL CONTINUE TO WIN THIS BATTLE AGAINST TERRORISM. TO DATE, WE HAVE DISBANDED 23 GANGS OF HIRED ASSASSINS OPERATING IN ENVIGADO IN ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT, HUICAN IN BOYACA DEPARTMENT, PUERTO LOPEZ AND SAN MARTIN IN META DEPARTMENT, LA ROCHELA IN SANTANDER DEPARTMENT, AND LLANOS DEL YARI IN CAQUETA DEPARTMENT. THESE GANGS OF HIRED ASSASSINS HAD PARTICIPATED IN MOST OF THE MURDERS OF THE COUNTRY'S LEFTIST LEADERS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>