<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0054"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0054"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0054</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0054</p><p>LIMA, 15 AUG 89 (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [SPEECH] [PERUVIAN PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA] [TEXT] GOOD EVENING. THE ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN IS NOW UNDER WAY. TEN CANDIDATES ARE RUNNING FOR MAYOR OF LIMA. WE MUST PARTICIPATE IN THE ELECTIONS TO PRESERVE DEMOCRACY IN OUR COUNTRY.</p><p>HOWEVER, THE ELECTORAL ATMOSPHERE THAT PREVAILS SHOULD NOT MAKE US FORGET OUR MOST SERIOUS PROBLEM, THE GREATEST THREAT TO OUR FATHERLAND. THIS THREAT IS TERRORISM WHICH COSTS LIVES, INFLICTS ECONOMIC HARM, FOSTERS INSECURITY, AND CUTS OFF THE POWER THAT WE NEED FOR OUR HOMES AND OUR INDUSTRIES.</p><p>WE CONTINUE TO BATTLE TERRORISM. THE ARMED FORCES AND THE NATIONAL POLICE ARE TAKING DRASTIC ACTION IN THE HUALLAGA VALLEY AND IN THE MOUNTAIN RANGE. THEY ARE ALSO BREAKING UP URBAN TERRORIST CELLS. HOWEVER, WE MUST ALSO ATTACK TERRORISTS THROUGH LEGAL ACTIONS, THROUGH THE MOST DRASTIC AND SEVERE SENTENCES.</p><p>IRRESPECTIVE OF MILITARY ACTIONS, IF NO SWIFT AND DRASTIC LEGAL PUNISHMENT IS METED, THE TERRORISTS KNOW THAT THEY WILL GO UNPUNISHED. STIMULATED BY THIS THEY CONTINUE WITH THEIR CRIMES.</p><p>THE WHOLE COUNTRY IS AWARE OF THIS. MOST PERUVIANS WANT SEVERE, DRASTIC AND EFFECTIVE PUNISHMENT FOR TERRORISTS. THUS, ON 28 JULY I PROPOSED TO THE NATIONAL CONGRESS THAT THE MILITARY COURTS SHOULD TRY TERRORISTS. TONIGHT, I WOULD LIKE TO REMIND YOU OF THIS SUBJECT BECAUSE I AM CONCERNED THAT IT MAY REMAIN JUST THAT; A PROPOSAL. I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO ASK ALL PERUVIANS, ALL ORGANIZATIONS AND INSTITUTIONS, TO SUPPORT THIS REQUEST WHICH WILL BE DISCUSSED IN CONGRESS.</p><p>BY HAVING TERRORISTS TRIED BY MILITARY COURTS WE ARE NOT GIVING UP ANY CIVILIAN PREROGATIVES. WE ARE NOT GIVING UP ANY DEMOCRATIC RIGHTS. THIS HAS BEEN DONE BEFORE IN OTHER DEMOCRATIC COUNTRIES.</p><p>FURTHERMORE, THE ARMED FORCES ARE AN ESSENTIAL COMPONENT OF PERU'S DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM. THEY ARE ALSO THE ONES THAT ACTUALLY FIGHT THE BATTLE AGAINST SUBVERSION. NO ONE CAN SAY THAT SETTING UP MILITARY COURTS IS TANTAMOUNT TO MILITARIZING THE COUNTRY BECAUSE THAT WOULD IMPLY DISTRUSTING THE ARMED FORCES, OFFENDING THEM AND OVERLOOKING THE FACT THAT THEY ARE DEFENDING DEMOCRACY. MORE THAN 2 YEARS AGO WE ASKED FOR AND WERE ALLOWED TO ESTABLISH SPECIAL COURTS TO TERRORIST CASES. SO FAR THESE COURTS HAVE YIELDED NO POSITIVE RESULTS. THUS, AS PRESIDENT IT IS MY DUTY TO CALL FOR SEVERE SENTENCES, ISSUED WITHOUT DELAY OR ANY THEORETICAL OR ACADEMIC DISCUSSIONS.</p><p>FOLLOWING MY 28 JULY SPEECH I ASCERTAINED THAT THE VAST MAJORITY OF PERUVIANS ARE IN FAVOR OF DRASTIC PUNISHMENTS AND OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF MILITARY COURTS. I HAVE ALSO HEARD SOME LEGAL OBJECTIONS AND THEORETICAL ARGUMENTS AGAINST THIS MEASURE.</p><p>THOSE WHO DO NOT WANT THE MILITARY COURTS TO TRY TERRORISTS SAY THAT ARTICLE 282 OF THE CONSTITUTION DOES NOT ALLOW IT. THIS IS HALF TRUE. ARTICLE 282 STATES: IN CASES OF CRIMES COMMITTED WHILE ON DUTY, POLICE AND ARMED FORCES MEMBERS ARE SUBJECT TO THE MILITARY JURISDICTION AND TO THE MILITARY CODE OF JUSTICE WHICH IS NOT APPLICABLE TO CIVILIANS EXCEPT IN THE CASE DESCRIBED BY ARTICLE 235, WHICH ESTABLISHES THE APPLICATION OF THE DEATH SENTENCE IN CASE OF BETRAYAL OF THE MOTHERLAND DURING WAR.</p><p>NOW, THOSE WHO DO NOT WANT MILITARY COURTS TO TRY TERRORISTS DO NOT WANT TO READ THE SECOND PART OF ARTICLE 282 WHICH STATES: THOSE WHO AVOID COMPULSORY MILITARY SERVICE ARE SUBJECT TO THE MILITARY CODE OF JUSTICE. THIS PARAGRAPH IS THE ONE THAT LEGALLY AND CONSTITUTIONALLY ALLOWS US TO TRY TERRORISTS UNDER THE MILITARY JURISDICTION, BECAUSE TERRORISTS ALSO VIOLATE THE COMPULSORY MILITARY SERVICE LAW WHEN THEY COMMIT CRIMES.</p><p>MANY PERUVIANS WRONGFULLY THINK THAT THE COMPULSORY MILITARY SERVICE ONLY AFFECTS MEN ON ACTIVE SERVICE, LIKE THOSE PERUVIANS WHO, AFTER A SELECTION ARE SENT TO SERVE IN A MILITARY GARRISON FOR 1 OR 2 YEARS. THIS IS ONLY ONE OF THE WAYS IN WHICH ONE COMPLIES WITH THE COMPULSORY MILITARY SERVICE.</p><p>THE COMPULSORY MILITARY SERVICE LAW STATES IN ARTICLE 2: THE COMPULSORY MILITARY SERVICE IN AN UNAVOIDABLE DUTY OF ALL PERUVIANS WHO MUST PARTICIPATE IN NATIONAL DEFENSE BY COMPLYING WITH THEIR MILITARY OBLIGATIONS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>