<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0044"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0044"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0044</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0044</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 2 MAY 90 (RADIO CADENA YSKL) -- [TEXT] WE NOW HAVE COLONEL SIGIFREDO OCHOA PEREZ ON THE TELEPHONE. THE ARMED FORCES, PARTICULARLY THE COMMANDERS OF THE VARIOUS ARMY BRANCHES AND GARRISONS WHO WERE CONVENED BY THE DEFENSE MINISTER, MADE A STATEMENT AGAINST THIS OFFICER, WHO IS A DEPUTY AND THE CURRENT CEL [LEMPA RIVER HYDROELECTRIC EXECUTIVE COMMISSION] PRESIDENT, AFTER HE DEMANDED JUSTICE IN THE CASE OF THE ASSASSINATED JESUIT PRIESTS. WE WILL NOW LISTEN TO COL OCHOA, WHO WILL MAKE KNOWN HIS STAND SINCE THE ARMED FORCES' STATEMENT WAS RELEASED.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [REPORTER] GOOD MORNING, COLONEL.</p><p>[OCHOA] GOOD MORNING. THANKS, RAUL. THESE GENTLEMEN SEEM TO BE SPEAKING IN THE NAME OF THE ENTIRE ARMED FORCES. I KNOW WELL WHAT WAS DISCUSSED IN THE MEETING. SOMEONE EVEN SAID THAT THE BRIGHT IDEA OF DISCHARGING ME WAS CONSIDERED. THEY FAILED TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT, HOWEVER, THAT I AM A DEPUTY AND THAT, AS A DEPUTY AND A CITIZEN, I AM ENTITLED TO EXPRESS WHAT I FEEL, JUST AS I HAVE DONE. I, WHO OWE EVERYTHING TO THE ARMED FORCES, WHO FOUGHT BESIDE THE SOLDIERS AS MONTERROSA, CARLITOS, AND VERY FEW OTHERS DID, NEVER GOT RICH WHEN IN THE ARMED FORCES, AS SOME OF THE COMMANDERS DID, ALTHOUGH NOT ALL OF THEM, OF COURSE. THIS UNDOUBTEDLY HAS IRRITATED THEM.</p><p>I HAVE SIMPLY EXPRESSED MY VIEWPOINT AS A SOLDIER CONCERNED ABOUT THE ARMED FORCES' SITUATION. I NEVER MENTIONED ANY NAMES. I SIMPLY DEMANDED JUSTICE BECAUSE, EVEN ACCORDING TO MILITARY THEORY, I CANNOT CONCEIVE THAT SUCH AN IMPORTANT DECISION COULD HAVE BEEN MADE BY A SINGLE PERSON. I STILL THINK THIS IS A PLOT BY SOME MEMBERS OF THE INSTITUTION, NOT BY THE ARMED FORCES AS SUCH. I ONLY HAVE RESPECT AND LOVE FOR THE ARMED FORCES. I AM CONCERNED OVER THE DELICATE SITUATION TO WHICH THE INSTITUTION COULD BE LED BECAUSE OF THE ACTIONS OF SOME NEFARIOUS MEMBERS. I HAVE DEEP RESPECT FOR THE OFFICERS IN THE FIELD, WHO FIGHT EVERY DAY. OF COURSE, I MUST CRITICIZE THOSE WHO HAVE PROFITED FROM THE INSTITUTION AND WHO TODAY HAVE RAISED THE ROOF, AS IF I WERE THE ONE TO BLAME AND AS IF I WERE UNDERMINING THE INSTITUTIONALITY OF THE STATE. QUITE THE OPPOSITE IS TRUE. MY CRITICISM IS POSITIVE AND INTENDS TO ENCOURAGE A DEEPER INVESTIGATION AND EXHAUST ALL RESOURCES IN THIS DIRECTION. I WOULD LIKE THEM TO STOP MAKING RIDICULOUS DEMANDS AND TO STOP SEEKING A CONFRONTATION. IT IS KNOWN THAT WHAT I AM DEMANDING IS WHAT IS BEING FELT AND SAID. I AM NOT ACCUSING ANYONE IN PARTICULAR. I AM ONLY DEMANDING JUSTICE. COMMANDERS' MEETINGS SHOULD NOT BE HELD TO MAKE SUCH A STATEMENT. THEY SHOULD HAVE INSTEAD SHOWN THEIR CONCERN OVER THE ARMED FORCES' SITUATION. I WOULD HAVE BEEN VERY INTERESTED IN SEEING THEM TAKE THE STAND TO CONTINUE THE INVESTIGATION TO THE LAST CONSEQUENCES. AS THE MILITARY MAN I AM, I ONLY ASSESSED THE SITUATION. I NEVER MENTIONED ANY NAMES, BUT INSISTED THAT A DEEPER INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO CARRY OUT JUSTICE, BECAUSE OTHERWISE IT IS THE INSTITUTION THAT WILL SUFFER.</p><p>[REPORTER] COL OCHOA, AFTER THE "SIXTY MINUTES" PROGRAM ON CBS IN THE UNITED STATES, IT SEEMS THAT IN THIS CAPITAL AND IN THE COUNTRY YOUR REMARKS AND YOUR INTERPRETATION OF THE JESUITS' CASE WERE DISTORTED. TODAY THERE HAS BEEN AN ATTEMPT TO ACCUSE YOU. IT HAS BEEN SAID THAT THE CUT IN U.S. AID TO THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES IS THE RESULT OF YOUR REMARKS, RATHER THAN OF THE SLOWNESS IN THE INVESTIGATION OF THE JEUSIT PRIESTS' CASE. DO YOU THINK THERE HAS BEEN ILL INTENT IN THIS, OR THAT THERE HAS BEEN AN ATTEMPT TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF YOU TO TRY TO JUSTIFY AN ACTION?</p><p>[OCHOA] I THINK SO. THERE HAS BEEN AN ATTEMPT TO BLAME ME, AS IF I COULD INFLUENCE THE DECISION-MAKING OF THE U.S. CONGRESS. A REDUCTION IN MILITARY AID TO EL SALVADOR HAS BEEN UNDER CONSIDERATION FOR MONTHS BECAUSE THE EXPECTED RESULTS HAVE NOT BEEN OBTAINED. I THINK IT IS RIDICULOUS AND CHILDISH TO SAY THAT THE AID WILL BE CUT AS THE RESULT OF MY REMARKS. THE TRUTH IS THAT ALL CRIMES WITH WHICH SOME ARMED FORCES' MEMBERS HAVE JEOPARDIZED THE INSTITUTION SHOULD BE PUNISHED. MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT SOLIDARITY SHOULD EXIST IN THE CONTEXT OF OPERATIONS AND THE FULFILLMENT OF THE ARMED FORCES' CONSTITUTIONAL MISSION. HOWEVER, THOSE WHO HARM THE INSTITUTION SHOULD NOT BE PROTECTED.</p><p>I THINK SOME ARE TRYING TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE SITUATION, AS IF TO SAY: COL OCHOA HAS ENDANGERED THE ARMED FORCES. WHAT HAS ENDANGERED THE INSTITUTION IS THE MURDER OF THE JESUITS AND THE SAN SEBASTIAN PEOPLE. I CANOT AGREE WITH THE PERPETRATION OF OUTRAGES. ONE THING IS TO FIGHT FAIRLY WITH THE ENEMY. THERE ARE DEAD IN EVERY WAR. I SAID THIS VERY CLEARLY WHEN I WAS 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE COMMANDER IN CABANAS. I AGREED WITH THE PENETRATION INTO THE POPULATION TO HELP THEM. I FEEL SATISFIED OVER MY PASSAGE THROUGH THE ARMED FORCES AS A COMMANDER, BECAUSE I IDENTIFIED MYSELF BOTH WITH MY MEN AND THE CIVILIAN POPULATION. AT NO TIME DID I TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE INSTITUTION TO ACQUIRE ILLEGAL RICHES. TO POINT THESE THINGS OUT IS NOT TO ATTACK THE ARMED FORCES. QUITE THE CONTRARY, IT IS BECAUSE I LOVE IT THAT I HAVE CRITICIZED THE NEGATIVE MEMBERS. THE ARMED FORCES CAN THUS BE SPARED GREATER DAMAGE BY THE POOR ACTIONS OF SOME OF ITS MEMBERS.</p><p>[REPORTER] COLONEL, IN THE PAST FEW HOURS WE HAVE HEARD REPORTS THAT YOU ARE TO BE SUPPORTED BY THE ARMY'S YOUNGER OFFICERS AND SOME UNIONS, EVEN THE CEL UNION. WHAT CAN YOU TELL US ABOUT THIS SITUATION? [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>