<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0008"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0008"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0008</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0008</p><p>BOGOTA, 14 SEP 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 2) -- [TEXT] DIEGO BIAFARA, ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY [DAS] AND DRUG ENFORCEMENT AGENCY INFORMANT, WHO APPEARED BEFORE A U.S. SENATE COMMITTEE ON 13 SEPTEMBER, REVEALED UNKNOWN LINKS BETWEEN THE ISRAELI AND BRITISH MERCENARIES, WHO HAVE TRAINED PARAMILITARY GROUPS IN OUR COUNTRY.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [BIAFARA] THAT IS YAIR KLEIN IN FRONT. HE IS THE COLONEL WEARING THE DARK BLUE SHIRT. THE THIN PERSON BEHIND HIM WEARING THE LIGHT BLUE SHIRT IS TEDDY, WHO WAS THE TRANSLATOR. THERE WERE FIVE ISRAELI INSTRUCTORS. I REMEMBER THE NAMES: SADAKA, AMANCIA, YAIR, AND TEDDY. I CANNOT REMEMBER THE NAME OF THE FIFTH ONE. THERE WERE 11 BRITISH INSTRUCTORS. WE USED TO CALL THAT ONE DAVID. THIS MAN WAS AN EXPERT IN EXPLOSIVES. HE INSTRUCTED US ON HOW TO USE EXPLOSIVES. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THESE WERE STATEMENTS MADE BY BIAFARA TO THE U.S. SENATE IN WHICH WE LEARNED OF A CLEAR LINK BETWEEN THE ISRAELI MERCENARIES, WHO WERE TRAINING PARAMILITARY GROUPS IN THE MIDDLE MAGDALENA REGION, AND THE BRITISH MERCENARIES WHO CAME TO THE COUNTRY ALLEGEDLY TO ASSASSINATE PABLO ESCOBAR.</p><p>BIAFARA KNEW BOTH GROUPS OF MERCENARIES. ACCORDING TO HIS STATEMENTS GIVEN TO DAS LAST MARCH, NOT ONLY DID ISRAELI MERCENARIES TRAIN ASSASSINS IN MIDDLE MAGDALENA, THERE WAS ALSO A GROUP OF 11 BRITISH MERCENARIES, WHO GAVE LESSONS TO 50 STUDENTS. AMONG THE INSTRUCTORS THERE WAS PETER MCLISE, THE NAME OF ONE OF THE LEADERS OF THE OPERATION AGAINST PABLO ESCOBAR, AND DAVID, WHO BIAFARA CLEARLY IDENTIFIED. HE WAS DAVID TOMKINS, THE MAN IN CHARGE OF THE PLOT AGAINST ESCOBAR. ACCORDING TO BIAFARA, MOST BRITISH INSTRUCTORS HAD TATOOS ON THEIR BREASTS, ARMS, AND SHOULDERS, JUST AS WE CAN SEE ON THE VIDEO TAPED BY THE BRITISH MEN WHO PREPARED THE OPERATION AGAINST ESCOBAR.</p><p>IN CONCLUSION, THE MERCENARIES WHO WERE PREPARING TO ASSASSINATE ONE OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL LEADERS WERE THE SAME ONES WHO TRAINED THE ASSASSINS PAID BY THE CARTEL ITSELF.</p></body></html>