<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0099"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0099"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0099</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0099</p><p>LIMA, 25 OCT 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] POLICE HAVE REPORTED THAT TERRORISTS TONIGHT BOMBED THE EMBASSIES OF THE PRC AND THE SOVIET UNION. THE BOMBS CAUSED DAMAGE BUT NO INJURIES.</p><p>A CAR-BOMB EXPLODED IN FRONT OF THE PRC EMBASSY, WHICH IS IN THE LIMA RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OF SAN ISIDRO. MEANWHILE, TWO BOMBS WERE THROWN AT A USSR EMBASSY VEHICLE THAT WAS PARKED IN FRONT OF THE EMBASSY LOCATED IN ORRANTIA DISTRICT, NEAR SAN ISIDRO.</p><p>POLICE SAID THE ATTACKS WERE CARRIED OUT ALMOST SIMULTANEOUSLY AND THAT THE BOMBS BROKE WINDOWS AND DESTROYED THE TWO VEHICLES.</p><p>NO ONE HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACKS SO FAR. POLICE SOURCES, HOWEVER, HAVE SAID THE ATTACKS COULD HAVE BEEN CARRIED OUT BY THE MAOIST "SHINING PATH" GROUP OR THE GUEVARIST "TUPAC AMARU REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT" (MRTA) GROUP. THE SOURCES ALSO SAID THAT THE SHINING PATH HAS ATTACKED SOVIET INTERESTS IN PERU IN THE PAST.</p><p>IN JULY 1989 THE SHINING PATH BOMBED A BUS CARRYING NEARLY 50 SOVIET MARINES INTO THE PORT OF EL CALLAO. FIFTEEN SOVIET MARINES WERE WOUNDED.</p><p>SOME 3 YEARS AGO TWO MARINES DIED FOLLOWING A SHINING PATH BOMBING OF A MARKET USED BY SOVIET MARINES.</p><p>IN ANOTHER INCIDENT 3 YEARS AGO, A SHINING PATH MILITANT WAS KILLED BY SOVIET EMBASSY GUARDS INSIDE THE EMBASSY COMPOUND. THE TERRORIST WAS CARRYING DYNAMITE.</p><p>THE ATTACKS TODAY COME AFTER SHINING PATH ATTACKS DURING WHICH LEAST 10 BUSES WERE BURNED THROUGHOUT LIMA ON 24 OCT.</p></body></html>