<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0086"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0086"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-14"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0086</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0086</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 14 NOV 89 -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE FMLN FAILED EVEN BEFORE IT TRIED TO ENTER OUR COUN.... [CORRECTS HIMSELF] OUR CAPITAL, AND THIS WAS STATED BY TERRORISTS WHO HAVE SURRENDERED AND TERRORISTS WHO HAVE BEEN APPREHENDED. THEY SAID THAT THEY WERE BROUGHT TO THE CAPITAL UNDER FALSE PRETENSES. THEY WERE LED TO BELIEVE THAT THEY WERE GOING ALONG FOR A RIDE AND THAT ALL THE PEOPLE WOULD SUPPORT THEM, AND THAT THE ARMED FORCES WOULD NOT PUT UP A FIGHT. THIS, MORE THAN ANYTHING ELSE, HAS BEEN THE HARSHEST BLOW FOR THE FMLN BECAUSE THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE REJECTED AND SPURNED THEM WHEN THEY TRIED TO EXPOSE THE PEOPLE TO SO MUCH DANGER AND HARM.</p><p>IT WAS ALSO SATISFACTORY TO HEAR THE MANY STATEMENTS OF SUPPORT AND SOLIDARITY GIVEN BY SO MANY SALVADORANS. THEY HAVE TALKED THROUGH THE NATIONAL NETWORK AND EVERY OTHER MEANS OF COMMUNICATION, AND HAVE REJECTED AND SPURNED THE FMLN AND ITS TERRORIST ACTIONS. FURTHERMORE, THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR AND THE MINISTRIES OF AGRICULTURE AND ECONOMY ARE DRAFTING A PROGRAM TO HELP THE NEIGHBORHOODS WHICH HAVE BEEN AFFECTED BY THE FMLN'S ACTIONS--ONCE EVERYTHING IS CALM--AND TO RESUPPLY THE SUPERMARKETS AND STORES AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE. WE KNOW THE PEOPLE HAVE HAD PROBLEMS GETTING FOOD FOR THE LAST 2 AND 1/2 DAYS AND THE SUPPLIES SHOULD BE BROUGHT AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.</p><p>SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WE DO NOT WANT TO END THIS ADDRESS WITHOUT STATING OUR DEEP GRATITUDE FOR YOUR--AND THE OTHER SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S--COURAGEOUS ATTITUDE IN THE FACE OF THE FMLN AGGRESSION. WE CAN ONLY FEEL PROUD ABOUT THE MESSAGES OF SUPPORT--NOT FOR US ON A PERSONAL BASIS BUT FOR THE DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM, THE RIGHTS THAT THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE DEMAND--AND FOR THE SUPPORT GIVEN TO THE ARMED FORCES, WHOSE MORALE IS HIGH AND WHO TAKE PRIDE IN THE PROFESSIONALISM WHICH THEY HAVE ACQUIRED THROUGHOUT THE YEARS TO COUNTER THE SITUATION IN THE SHORTEST TIME POSSIBLE.</p><p>WE KNOW THAT THE FMLN HAS FAILED, AND NOW IT IS A MATTER OF TIME BEFORE THE ARMED FORCES MANAGE TO TURN THE SITUATION AROUND COMPLETELY. ALSO, WE WANT TO STATE OUR DEEP GRATITUDE TO THE FRIENDLY COUNTRIES THAT HAVE SHOWN THEIR SUPPORT AND SOLIDARITY-- MOST OF ALL THEIR SOLIDARITY WITH YOU, THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE-- BECAUSE THERE HAVE BEEN STATEMENTS WHICH, FRANKLY, HAVE FILLED US WITH EMOTION. FOR EXAMPLE, THOSE OF COSTA RICA, THE UNITED STAES, GUATEMALA, AND, IN SHORT, ALL THE OTHER COUNTRIES THAT KNOW PERFECTLY WELL HOW IRRATIONAL THE FMLN'S AGGRESSION IS. THEY HAVE REALIZED THAT THE GOVERNMENT AND THE REPUBLIC, WHICH ARE THE RESULT OF THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE'S WILL, HAVE BEGUN A RATIONAL, PEACEFUL, AND DEMOCRATIC PROCESS TO ACHIEVE PEACE IN OUR COUNTRY.</p><p>TO CONCLUDE, SALVADORAN PEOPLE, WE REQUEST YOUR SUPPORT AND UNDERSTANDING; BUT ALSO YOUR TRUST AND SERENITY. YOU CAN REST ASSURED THAT THE ARMED FORCES AND THE GOVERNMENT WILL EMERGE VICTORIOUS FROM THE AGGRESSION WHICH THE FMLN TERRORISTS HAVE LAUNCHED. IT IS A DESPERATE ACTION AND, IN COUNTERING THE SITUATION, WE WILL BE MUCH CLOSER TO THE PEACE WE WANT SO MUCH. MAY GOD BLESS YOU ALL AND THANK YOU.</p></body></html>