<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0011"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0011"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0011</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0011</p><p>SANTIAGO, 18 MAY 90 (RADIO COOPERATIVA NETWORK) -- [REPORT] [JUAN ARAYA] [TEXT] EDMUNDO VARGAS CARRENO, CHILEAN FOREIGN MINISTRY UNDER SECRETARY, HAS STATED THAT THE BRYANT TREATY WITH THE UNITED STATES WILL BE APPLIED IN THE LETELIER CASE ONLY TO COMPENSATE THE RELATIVES OF THE FORMER CHILEAN FOREIGN MINISTER MURDERED IN WASHINGTON AND THE RELATIVES OF HIS U.S. SECRETARY, RONNIE MOFFIT. THE CHILEAN FOREIGN UNDER SECRETARY MADE THIS STATEMENT IN REPLY TO U.S. NEWSPAPER REPORTS STATING THAT THE TREATY WOULD BE PARTIALLY RESPECTED.</p><p>FOLLOWING ARE VARGAS CARRENO'S STATEMENTS AT A NEWS CONFERENCE HE HELD IN BUENOS AIRES BEFORE CONCLUDING HIS OFFICIAL VISIT TO ARGENTINA:</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [VARGAS] THIS TREATY [WORDS INDISTINCT] USED BY THE UNITED STATES IN 1989, DURING THE PAST ADMINISTRATION, TO SOLVE TWO PROBLEMS CONNECTED WITH THE LETELIER CASE: THE PROBLEM OF COMPENSATION AND THE PROBLEM OF THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE DEATH OF ORLANDO LETELIER AND HIS [WORDS INDISTINCT] ASSISTANT.</p><p>IT HAS BEEN AGREED IN PRINCIPLE TO USE THE TREATY EXCLUSIVELY TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM OF COMPENSATION; THAT IS THE OBJECTIVE WHEN WE REFER TO ITS PARTIAL USE. [WORDS INDISTINCT] SO AS FOR THE COMPENSATION SUBJECT, IT WILL BE USED. WE ARE USING THE MECHANISM CREATED BY THE FIVE-MEMBER COMMISSION ESTABLISHED BY THE TREATY. THE LANGUAGE OF THIS TREATY WAS PERTINENT FOR THE EARLY DECADES OF THIS CENTURY BUT IS NO LONGER IN KEEPING WITH CURRENT INTERNATIONAL PRACTICES. [END RECORDING]</p><p>DURING THE NEWS CONFERENCE WITH ARGENTINE AND FOREIGN JOURNALISTS, VARGAS CARRENO ALSO ANNOUNCED THAT PRESIDENT CARLOS MENEM WILL VISIT CHILE IN AUGUST IN RESPONSE TO AN INVITATION FROM CHILEAN PRESIDENT PATRICIO AYLWIN, WHO WILL ALSO VISIT ARGENTINA AT AN AS YET UNDETERMINED DATE.</p><p>VARGAS CARRENO NOTED HIS SATISFACTION WITH HIS MEETINGS IN BUENOS AIRES WITH FOREIGN MINISTER DOMINGO CAVALLO AND RAUL CARIGNANO, UNDER SECRETARY FOR LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS. VARGAS CARRENO SAID THAT AS A RESULT OF THIS INITIAL CONTACT THE BINATIONAL COMMISSION ESTABLISHED BY THE CHILEAN-ARGENTINE PEACE AND FRIENDSHIP TREATY, WHICH WAS SIGNED IN 1984, WILL MEET NEXT JULY. HE SAID THAT THE TWO COUNTRIES WILL CONTINUE TO HOLD FORMAL AND INFORMAL TALKS TO DISCUSS PROBLEMS OF COMMON INTEREST, SPEED UP THE INTEGRATION PROCESS, AND INCREASE MUTUAL UNDERSTANDING AND COOPERATION.</p><p>REGARDING THE SITUATION OF HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF CHILEAN CITIZENS LIVING IN ARGENTINA -- A TOTAL HE ESTIMATED AT 800,000 -- VARGAS CARRENO SAID THAT PRESIDENT AYLWIN'S GOVERNMENT HAS ESTABLISHED AN OFFICE TO HELP THOSE CITIZENS LIVING ABROAD FOR VARIOUS REASONS TO RETURN TO CHILE, ESPECIALLY THOSE LIVING IN ARGENTINA'S PATAGONIA REGION WHO ARE BEING TREATED INHUMANELY, ESPECIALLY BY BUSINESSMEN IN THE BORDER AREA, AS REPORTED BY AN ARGENTINE JOURNALIST.</p></body></html>