<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0020"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0020"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0020</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0020</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 11 NOV 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] THE ARMED FORCES HAVE EVERYTHING UNDER CONTROL. WE HAVE TOURED THE ENTIRE AREA; SOME HAVE ELECTRICITY, AND OTHERS DO NOT. THE REBELS HAVE TRIED TO CREATE A SITUATION. HOWEVER, NOTHING HAS HAPPENED BECAUSE THE ARMED FORCES CONTROL EVERYTHING.</p><p>THIS IS A REPORT FROM THE ENTIRE AREA WHERE THERE HAS BEEN AN ATTEMPT TO CREATE A SITUATION OF HARASSMENT, AND THAT IS WHAT THE ARMED FORCES ARE REPORTING TONIGHT. IN A CERTAIN SECTOR, IN THE VICINITY OF SANTA TECLA OR, [CHANGES THOUGHT] THE ENTIRE SITUATION THAT IS BEING EXPERIENCED TONIGHT. [SENTENCE AS HEARD]</p><p>THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE CAN REST ASSURED THAT THE ARMED FORCES CONTROL EVERYTHING; THERE ARE ONLY SOME BOMBINGS AND SHOOTINGS THAT WILL NOT LEAD TO ANYTHING. THIS IS ONLY BEING DONE TO MAKE THE PEOPLE FEEL AS IF THERE WERE SITUATIONS THAT ARE NOT DIFFERENT AT ALL, BECAUSE THEY WILL NOT LEAD TO ANYTHING, THE SITUATION, RIGHT? [SENTENCE AS HEARD]</p><p>THAT IS THE REPORT WE CAN GIVE YOU NOW, WHILE WE ARE EXPERIENCING THE POWER OUTTAGE, AND THE REBLS ARE BRINGING EVERYTHING TO A STANDSTILL, BUT THIS WILL NOT LEAD TO ANYTHING THAT WOULD MAKE THE PEOPLE FEEL THAT THERE IS AN ALARMING SITUATION.</p><p>I AM REPORTING LIVE FROM THE AREA OF THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY AND JARDINES LA SULTANA, WHERE THERE IS NO ELECTRICITY AT PRESENT. WE HAVE MADE A GREAT EFFORT TO CONTACT YOU BY TELEPHONE AS WE KNOW THIS IS THE STATION THAT IS HEARD THROUGHOUT EL SALVADOR AND OUTSIDE OUR COUNTRY.</p><p>THAT IS THE SITUATION AT PRESENT. EVERYTHING IS UNDER CONTROL. THERE ARE NO PROBLEMS. IT IS JUST A HARASSMENT BY THE REBELS WHO ARE TRYING TO SCARE PEOPLE. EVERYTHING IS UNDER CONTROL.</p></body></html>