<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0046"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0046"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0046</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0046</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 6 JUL 89 (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [TEXT] THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] ISSUED A COMMUNIQUE A FEW HOURS AGO DENYING THAT IT DIRECTED AN ATTACK AGAINST SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE PRESIDENT MAURICIO GUTIERREZ CASTRO.</p><p>THE REBEL COMMUNIQUE READS: ON THE AFTERNOON OF 2 JULY, FMLN GUERRILLAS CARRIED OUT PROPAGANDA ACTIVITY AND OCCUPIED 8 KM OF THE ROAD TO LA LIBERTAD PORT, BETWEEN THE 14- AND 21-KM MARKERS, WHERE THEY ERECTED A BARRICADE. THE GUERRILLAS ADDED THAT THEY STOPPED APPROXIMATELY 200 VEHICLES TO MEET AND EXCHANGE VIEWS WITH THE DRIVERS.</p><p>AT THE 14-KM MARKER, A VEHICLE IN WHICH (ROBERTO MATIS REGALADO'S) BODYGUARDS WERE RIDING ARRIVED, BUT THE DRIVER DID NOT OBEY THE ORDER TO STOP, WHICH PROVOKED A CLASH WITH OUR UNITS. TWO MEN WERE WOUNDED AND ONE WOMAN WAS KILLED AS A RESULT OF THAT INCIDENT.</p><p>OUR FORCES REPORTED THAT THEY SEIZED ONE M-16 RIFLE AND ONE .45 - CALIBER PISTOL. THE FMLN DOCUMENT ADDS THAT MINUTES LATER, AT THE 21-KM MARKER, THE SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE PRESIDENT'S BODYGUARDS TRIED TO SURPRISE OUR FIGHTERS AND ANOTHER CLASH OCCURRED. DURING THE CLASH, ONE BODYGUARD WAS KILLED AND THE ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] OFFICIAL WAS WOUNDED.</p><p>PARAGRAPH THREE OF THE COMMUNIQUE ADDS THAT THE ARMED PROPAGANDA ACTIVITIES ALONG THE LA LIBERTAD PORT - SAN SALVADOR ROUTE ARE AIMED AT DISTRIBUTING PROPAGANDA AND AT DESTABILIZING THIS VITAL ROUTE USED BY GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AND MILITARY MEN TO TRAVEL TO THEIR PRIVATE CLUBS LOCATED ALONG THE COAST.</p><p>THE FMLN, THE DOCUMENT ADDS, REITERATES ITS DETERMINATION TO STOP THOSE WHO ARE INVOLVED IN THE GENOCIDAL WAR -- THOSE WHO EVERY DAY SHELL THE RURAL AREAS AND PERSECUTE AND MURDER PEASANTS, WORKERS, AND STUDENTS -- FROM TAKING IT EASY AND RELAXING AT THEIR CLUBS AND IN THEIR EXCLUSIVE NEIGHBORHOODS. THE ATTACK ON THE NATIONAL POLICE STATION AT THE MANUEL JOSE ARCE MILITARY NEIGHBORHOOD FOLLOWS THIS SAME LINE OF DESTABILIZATION. THEREFORE, WE CALL ON OUR PEOPLE TO PAY ATTENTION TO THE RECOMMENDATIONS AND ORDERS ISSUED BY OUR FIGHTERS AND TO THEREBY PREVENT REGRETTABLE LOSSES. WE WARN BODYGUARDS AND SECURITY GUARDS THAT WE WILL FIGHT THOSE WHO ARE ARMED AND WHO OFFER RESISTANCE.</p><p>IN CONCLUSION, THE FMLN COMMUNIQUE RELEASED A FEW HOURS AGO ADDS: WE REITERATE THAT WE WILL CONTINUE TO ABIDE BY OUR REVOLUTIONARY PRINCIPLES AND STICK TO THE TRUTH. WE DID NOT PARTICIPATE IN INCIDENTS SUCH AS THE ATTACK AGAINST [PRESIDENCY MINISTER] ANTONIO RODRIGUEZ PORTH AND EDGAR CHACON [IDEOLOGUE OF THE ORLANDO DE SOLA GROUP]. THESE INCIDENTS RESULTED FROM A WAR WITHIN ARENA RANKS, AND WE WARN THAT ACTS OF REPRESSION UNLEASHED BY THE GOVERNMENT AGAINST THE POPULAR AND DEMOCRATIC MOVEMENTS WILL NOT GO UNPUNISHED AND WILL RECEIVE A STRONG RESPONSE FROM OUR FORCES.</p><p>THIS WAS THE RECENT FMLN COMMUNIQUE ON THE INCIDENTS THAT OCCURRED ON 2 JULY ON THE ROAD TO LA LIBERTAD PORT, WHERE THE PRESIDENT OF THE SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE WAS WOUNDED.</p></body></html>