<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0055"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0055"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0055</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0055</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] MOREOVER, THE CONSERVATIVE INTER-AMERICAN PRESS ASSOCIATION HAS CONDEMNED CRISTIANI BECAUSE OF THE CENSORSHIP, THE DISINFORMATION NETWORK, AND THE PERSECUTION AGAINST LOCAL AND FOREIGN JOURNALISTS AND THE FEDERATION OF LATIN AMERICAN JOURNALISTS HAS JUST DONE THE SAME. THE GROUP OF EIGHT, WHICH IS THE MOST INFLUENTIAL LATIN AMERICAN GROUP, HAS CRITICIZED CRISTIANI'S REJECTION OF A CEASE-FIRE, WHICH WAS REQUESTED BY THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY AND INCLUDED BY THE FMLN IN ITS LATEST POLITICAL PROPOSAL. IN ADDITION, THE GROUP OF EIGHT HAS DESCRIBED CRISTIANI'S REJECTION OF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS MEETING, SCHEDULED FOR MANAGUA, AS A POLITICAL OUTBOURST.</p><p>CRISTIANI'S SITUATION IN THE UNITED STATES IS BECOMING DRAMATIC. THE BIPARTISAN CONSENSUS THAT SUPPORTED MILITARY AID HAS BOKEN UP. THE U.S. PRESS IS INCREASINGLY CRITICAL OF THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT AND ARMED FORCES. PROTEST DEMONSTRATIONS ARE MULTIPLYING. PERSONALITIES LIKE JESSE JACKSON ARE DEMANDING AND END TO AID FOR CRISTIANI. TO THIS MUST BE ADDED THE RECENT STATEMENT, IN SIMILAR TERMS, OF THE BISHOPS OF ALL U.S. CHURCHES. THE SCENES OF THE U.S. PERSONNEL'S DEPARTURE FROM SAN [13-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] $4 BILLION TO THAT COUNTRY'S TREASURY AND 70,000 DEATHS TO THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>SERIOUS QUESTIONS ARE BEING RAISED NOW ABOUT BUSH'S FOREIGN POLICY. THE IMAGE OF A TERRORIST, FANATICAL FMLN WHICH SOME POWERFUL U.S. SECTORS HAD [11-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] AND MOST RECENTLY IN ESCALON. THE U.S. PRESS HAS BEGUN TALKING ABOUT AN FMLN THAT SHOWS STATESMANSHIP IN ITS ACTIONS AND AS A RATIONAL AND SENSIBLE POLITICAL AND MILITARY FORCE WITH WHICH RELATIONS OF EQUALITY AND RESPECT CAN BE ESTABLISHED TO FIND POLITICAL SOLUTIONS AND TO AVOID A REGIONALIZATION AND DEEPENING OF THE CONFLICT.</p><p>TO ACHIEVE DEMOCRATIZATION, TO ENFORCE RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS, THERE HAD TO BE [5-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] AND WE HAVE SUCCEEDED. THIS IS THE FIRST IMPORTANT ACHIEVEMENT, WHICH ADDS TO THE MANY GAINS DURING THE NATIONWIDE OFFENSIVE FOR PEACE AGAINST THOSE WHO HAVE TURNED WAR INTO A BUSINESS.</p><p>WE ACHIEVED IN 10 DAYS WHAT THE WORLD TOOK 10 DAYS TO UNDERSTAND. SALVADORANS, WE ARE STRONGER NOW THAN EVER. THE OFFENSIVE CONTINUES BUILDING VICTORY.</p></body></html>