<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0033"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0033"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0033</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0033</p><p>BOGOTA, 9 SEP 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] THE PEACE PROCESS WITH M-19 [19 APRIL MOVEMENT] THAT WAS INTERRUPTED DUE TO THE MURDER OF TWO MEMBERS OF THAT SUBVERSIVE ORGANIZATION -- NOW OBSERVING A TRUCE -- WAS RESTORED FOLLOWING A VISIT BY PRESIDENTIAL ADVISER RAFAEL PARDO TO THE M-19 CAMP IN SANTO DOMINGO, CAUCA DEPARTMENT. OUR CORRESPONDENT MARIA ALEJANDRA GONZALEZ WAS THERE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [GONZALEZ] THE PEACE PROCESS BETWEEN M-19 AND THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT WAS SERIOUSLY JEOPARDIZED THIS WEEK DUE TO THE MURDER OF TWO MEMBERS OF THAT GUERRILLA ORGANIZATION, WHICH OCCURRED AT THE BORDER BETWEEN CAUCA AND VALLE DEL CAUCA DEPARTMENTS. CARLOS PIZARRO LEONGOMEZ EXPRESSED HIS CONCERN OVER THE SITUATION.</p><p>[PIZARRO] WE ARE LIVING A SLOW MOTION PEACE PROCESS. WE NEED A PEACE PROCESS THROUGH WHICH COLOMBIANS CAN FEEL THAT PEACE HAS ARRIVED, INSTEAD OF A PROCESS THAT IS SIMPLY A PERMANENT AND ENDLESS ACCOUNT OF PEACE TRAGEDIES.</p><p>[GONZALEZ] OVER THE PAST FEW HOURS, PRESIDENTIAL PEACE ADVISER RAFAEL PARDO AND DEPUTY GOVERNMENT MINISTER JOSE NOE RIOS MET WITH MEMBERS OF THE M-19 COMMAND. THE PARTICIPANTS REAFFIRMED THEIR DETERMINATION TO CONTINUE WITH THE PEACE EFFORTS.</p><p>A FORUM FOR LIFE, DEMOCRACY, AND PROGRESS WILL BE HELD IN SANTO DOMINGO THIS WEEKEND, WITH THE PARTICIPATION OF POLITICAL LEADERS AND REPRESENTATIVES FROM GRASSROOTS ORGANIZATIONS. THE EVENT WILL INCLUDE SPORTS AND CULTURAL ACTIVITIES. COMMISSIONS WILL WORK ON DEVELOPMENT PLANS. AT LEAST 2,000 PEOPLE ARE EXPECTED THIS WEEKEND AT THE PEACE CAMP.</p></body></html>