<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0001"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0001"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0001</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0001</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 4 FEB 90 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] THE GUATEMALA ARMY DENIED TODAY THAT GUERRILLAS ATTACKED THE "SANTO TOMAS" PRESIDENTIAL FARM, LOCATED ON THE PACIFIC SIDE, WHERE PRESIDENT CEREZO HAS BEEN STAYING SINCE 2 FEBRUARY.</p><p>A REPORT PUBLISHED BY THE "CERIGUA" NEWS AGENCY -- MOUTHPIECE OF THE GUATEMALAN NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY UNITY (URNG) -- WHOSE MAIN OFFICES ARE IN MEXICO, SAYS THAT A GUERRILLA COLUMN ATTACKED THE FARM 2 DAYS AGO.</p><p>HOWEVER, ARMED FORCES SPOKESMAN COLONEL LUIS ARTURO ISAACS SAID THAT THE ATTACK, WHICH RESULTED IN THE DEATH OF A CIVILIAN WHO WAS PASSING BY AT THE TIME OF THE SKIRMISH, WAS NOT AGAINST THE FARM, AND THAT PRESIDENT CEREZO IS SAFE AND SOUND.</p><p>HE ADDED THAT ON 3 FEBRUARY PRESIDENT CEREZO MET WITH THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS ACCREDITED IN GUATEMALA.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT ALSO ISSUED A COMMUNIQUE DESCRIBING THE REBEL REPORT AS "FALSE AND INCORRECT," AND STRESSING THAT THE PRESIDENT WAS NEVER IN DANGER.</p><p>COL ISAACS SAID THAT THE GUERRILLAS ATTACKED THE "LA EMINENCIA" FARM LOCATED NEAR THE "SANTO TOMAS" FARM, WHERE THEY BURNED THE FACILITIES AND STOLE FOOD.</p><p>A MILITARY PATROL CLASHED WITH A REBEL COLUMN AND INFLICTED THREE CASUALTIES, WHICH WERE TAKEN AWAY BY THE GUERRILLAS WHO FLED TO THE MOUNTAINS, ISAACS NOTED.</p><p>HE ALSO REPORTED THAT GUERRILLAS KILLED A PEASANT IN THE CITY OF FLORES, IN THE NORTHERN EL PETEN DEPARTMENT, AND BURNED A TANK TRUCK.</p></body></html>