<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0029"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0029"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BEIJING (PRC)"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0029</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0029</p><p>BEIJING (PRC), 30 NOV 89 (XINHUA DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] ON 30 NOVEMBER WHEN U.S. PRESIDENT BUSH SET FORTH TO MALTA TO MEET WITH SOVIET LEADER GORBACHEV, A REPORT FROM ANGOLA SAID THAT A CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY [CIA] AIRPLANE ON A CLANDESTINE MISSION OF DELIVERING WEAPONS TO THE ANTIGOVERNMENT NATIONAL UNION FOR THE TOTAL INDEPENDENCE OF ANGOLA (UNITA) CRASHED IN SOUTHERN ANGOLA ON 27 NOVEMBER AND THAT THE FOUR AMERICANS ON THE PLANE WERE KILLED. TODAY BOTH THE U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT AND THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT CONFIRMED THE CRASH, BUT THEY REFUSED TO COMMENT ON WHETHER THE AMERICANS WHO WERE KILLED WERE CIA OFFICIALS, OR ON THE NATURE OF THE PLANE'S MISSION. THIS IS IN SHARP CONTRAST TO THE RESPONSE THAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT MADE A FEW DAYS AGO IN CONNECTION WITH A PLANE CRASH IN EL SALVADOR.</p><p>AFTER A PLANE CARRYING WEAPONS TO THE SALVADORAN GUERRILLAS CRASHED ON 25 NOVEMBER, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE BAKER PROMPTLY INSTRUCTED THE UNDERSECRETARY OF STATE ON THAT SAME EVENING TO SUMMON THE SOVIET AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES TO PROTEST TO THE SOVIET UNION FOR UNDERMINING PEACE IN CENTRAL AMERICA AND "FAILING TO EXERCISE ITS INFLUENCE" TO STOP CUBA AND NICARAGUA FROM DELIVERING WEAPONS TO THE GUERRILLAS IN EL SALVADOR. IN THIS CONNECTION, A U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL POINTED OUT THAT PRESIDENT BUSH WOULD PRESENT THE CENTRAL AMERICA ISSUE AS AN IMPORTANT ISSUE WHILE DISCUSSING PROBLEMS OF REGIONAL CONFLICTS WITH SOVIET LEADERS DURING THEIR MEDITERRANEAN MEETING. SOME OFFICIALS EVEN SAID THAT THE CENTRAL AMERICA ISSUE IS THE "PRINCIPAL OBSTACLE" TO THE IMPROVEMENT OF U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS, AND THAT ONLY WHEN THE USSR MAKES FURTHER CONCESSIONS ON THE CENTRAL AMERICA ISSUE WILL IT BE POSSIBLE FOR THE UNITED STATES TO PROVIDE ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE TO THE SOVIET UNION.</p><p>IN A CEASEFIRE ACCORD SIGNED ON 24 JUNE THIS YEAR, UNITA AND THE ANGOLAN GOVERNMENT AGREED TO SEEK WAYS AND MEANS TO CONCLUDE THE CIVIL WAR THAT HAD GONE ON FOR 14 YEARS. HOWEVER, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT KEEPS SUPPLYING WEAPONS TO UNITA. ACCORDING TO U.S. NEWSPAPERS, EVER SINCE THE SOUTH AFRICAN AUTHORITIES STOPPED SUPPLYING WEAPONS TO UNITA LAST APRIL, THE UNITED STATES HAS BECOME UNITA'S MAIN WEAPON SUPPLIER. THE SECRET THAT THE UNITED STATES' MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO UNITA INCREASED FROM $15 MILLION TO $50 MILLION THIS YEAR WAS REVEALED AFTER THE CRASH OF THE CIA'S WEAPON CARRIER. NOW, EVEN THE U.S. PRESS HAS ASKED THIS QUESTION: COULD IT PREVENT PRESIDENT BUSH FROM PRESENTING HIS CRITICISM WHEN PROBLEMS OF REGIONAL CONFLICTS ARE DISCUSSED WHEN HE MEETS THE SOVIET LEADER? A U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL SAID: "NOT AT ALL," "WE WILL NOT PLACE (THE TWO) ON A PAR." A STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL ALSO SAID THAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT WILL CONTINUE TO PROVIDE "APPROPRIATE AND EFFECTIVE ASSISTANCE" TO UNITA IN THE FUTURE.</p></body></html>