<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0092"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0092"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0092</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0092</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] 4. AT 0640 AN FMLN GUERRILLA UNIT LAUNCHED AN ATTACK ON CONCHAGUA BATTALION AND 3D MILITARY DETACHMENT SOLDIERS WHO WERE TRAVELING ON THE ROAD BETWEEN ANAMOROS AND LISLIQUE, 1 KM FROM LISLIQUE, LA UNION DEPARTMENT. THE CLASH, CARRIED OUT IN BROAD DAYLIGHT, ENDED AT 0930. WE KILLED THREE AND WOUNDED FIVE, AND TOOK FOUR PRISONERS OF WAR IN THAT AREA OF LA UNION DEPARTMENT. A CHIEF OF SECTION, A SERGEANT, IS AMONG THE DEAD. WE SEIZED SIX RIFLES, AN M-79 GRENADE LAUNCHER, AND [WORDS INDISTINCT]. MEANWHILE, ANOTHER FMLN UNIT ENTERED LISLIQUE, WHERE THEY CARRIED OUT POLITICAL ACTIVITIES FOR 3 HOURS.</p><p>5. AT 0300 FMLN UNITS ATTACKED AN INFANTRY COMPANY AT THE MOUTH OF THE LEMPA RIVER, AND 30 MINUTES LATER OUR FORCES HAD TAKEN OVER THE POST. WE KILLED ONE AND WOUNDED FOUR, AND SEIZED A RIFLE, A LAW ROCKET LAUNCHER, THREE BACKPACKS, AND WAR MATERIEL.</p><p>6. URBAN GUERRILLAS SABOTAGED PYLONS AND TRANSFORMERS IN SAN MIGUEL CITY.</p><p>7. A NATIONAL POLICE POST IN BERLIN WAS RAIDED AND ATTACKED.</p><p>ATTENTION: DURING THIS OPERATION LAUNCHED THROUGHOUT THE FOUR EASTERN DEPARTMENTS, WE INFLICTED A TOTAL OF 67 CASUALTIES. AMONG THESE CASUALTIES ARE: THE CHIEF OF THE CACAHUATIQUE BATTALION, A CAPTAIN, A LIEUTENANT, AND A SERGEANT. WE CAPTURED SIX PRISONERS OF WAR DURING THIS OPERATION. WE ALSO SEIZED 37 RIFLES, A 90-MM CANNON, 2 M-70 MACHINE GUNS, 3 LAW ROCKET LAUNCHERS, 3 M-79 GRENADE LAUNCHERS, 5 MILITARY RADIOS, 38 BACKPACKS, AND 6,800 ROUNDS OF AMMUNITION, AND WE DAMAGED A HELICOPTER. THIS IS THE RESULT OF OUR OPERATION: THE EASTERN SECTOR IS COURAGEOUS; EVERYONE AGAINST ARENA.</p></body></html>