<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0039"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0039"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0039</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0039</p><p>SANTIAGO, 29 MAR 89 -- [TEXT] THE INVESTIGATIVE POLICE HAVE ADMITTED THAT THE INDIVIDUALS THAT FIRED THEIR GUNS DURING A DEMONSTRATION OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS AT BERNARDO O'HIGGINS AVENUE YESTERDAY ARE MEMBERS OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT. THE CIVILIAN POLICE PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICE RELEASED THE FOLLOWING COMMUNIQUE:</p><p>REGARDING THE PICTURE THAT APPEARS IN THE MORNING NEWSPAPERS LA EPOCA AND FORTIN MAPOCHO SHOWING CIVILIANS TRYING TO CONTROL THE DISORDERS PROVOKED BY YOUNG INDIVIDUALS AT BERNARDO O'HIGGINS AVENUE NEAR SAN IGNACIO AND NATANIEL STREETS, THE INVESTIGATIVE POLICE PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICE STATES THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>1. THE CAR THAT APPEARS IN THE PICTURES OF BOTH NEWSPAPERS BELONGS TO THE INVESTIGATIVE POLICE. THE CAR WAS ON PATROL CARRYING OUT SURVEILLANCE FOR POSSIBLE CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.</p><p>2. THE BEHAVIOR OF THE AGENTS IN THE POLICE CAR IS NOT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE NORMS OF CONDUCT ESTABLISHED BY THE INSTITUTION FOR SUCH CIRCUMSTANCES. THE INSTITUTION WILL THEREFORE DISCIPLINE THE AGENTS INVOLVED.</p><p>3. HOWEVER, THE INVESTIGATIVE POLICE WARN THAT ACCORDING TO LAW 2460, ARTICLE 5, ITS DUTY IS TO MAINTAIN PUBLIC ORDER AND COMBAT ALL CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES.</p><p>4. THE POPULATION MUST REST ASSURED THAT THE INSTITUTION WILL FULFILL ITS DUTY TO MAINTAIN ORDER WHILE MAINTAINING THE APPROPRIATE STANDARD OF CONDUCT WITHIN THE DETECTIVE DEPARTMENT.</p><p>SIGNED: JUAN DIAZ JARA, CHIEF PREFECT OF THE CIVILIAN POLICE PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICE.</p><p>SEVERAL SHOTS WERE HEARD FOLLOWING THE INCIDENTS YESTERDAY AT THE CENTRAL WALKWAY OF BERNARDO O'HIGGINS AVENUE DURING A DEMONSTRATION STAGED BY STUDENTS FROM THE APPLICATIONS SCHOOL. THE STUDENTS WERE MARCHING TO HONOR THE TWO VERGARA TOLEDO BROTHERS WHO WERE KILLED 4 YEARS AGO DURING AN APPARENT CONFRONTATION AT VILLA FRANCIA.</p><p>AROUND 1400 YESTERDAY, SOME 100 STUDENTS FROM THE APPLICATIONS SCHOOL BUILT A ROADBLOCK AND MARCHED THROUGH THE CENTRAL WALKWAY OF O'HIGGINGS AVENUE. WHEN THE DEMONSTRATORS PASSED THE BRAZILIAN EMBASSY, A GUARD CAME OUT AND POINTED A GUN AT THEM. THE STUDENTS THEN PICKED UP STONES AND FORCES THE GUARD TO WITHDRAW.</p><p>LATER, TWO INDIVIDUALS IN A CHEVROLET OPALA AUTOMOBILE POINTED AK RIFLES AT THE STUDENTS, FIRED SOME SHOTS, AND QUICKLY DROVE AWAY. FINALLY A DETACHMENT OF CARABINEROS ARRIVED AT THE SCENE, ARRESTED SEVERAL STUDENTS, AND BROKE UP THE DEMONSTRATION.</p></body></html>