<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0023"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0023"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0023</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0023</p><p>BOGOTA, 27 APR 90 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [SPEECH] [COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE MEDIA CAN MAKE A SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTION TOWARD PEACE AND DEMOCRACY IF, ON THEIR OWN INITIATIVE, THEY LAUNCH A GREAT CIVIC CAMPAIGN TO VIGOROUSLY STIMULATE THE CITIZENS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE COMING ELECTIONS.</p><p>FELLOW CITIZENS, I KNOW THAT YOU ARE ASKING YOURSELVES WHAT CAN BE DONE UNDER THESE CIRCUMSTANCES. ABOVE ALL, DO NOT PLAY UP TO TERRORISM. THE INTERESTS OF THE FATHERLAND ARE ABOVE ALL INDIVIDUAL OR GROUP INTERESTS, AS IS THE DEFENSE OF OUR DEMOCRACY, WHICH WE HAVE ALL BEEN BUILDING TOGETHER FOR MORE THAN A CENTURY. THIS CANNOT BE THE TIME OF OPPORTUNISM. THIS IS THE HOUR OF SOLIDARITY WITH THE COUNTRY, ITS PEOPLE, AND ITS INSTITUTIONS. THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THESE MEASURES AND THE ACTIONS OF THE PUBLIC FORCE DEPEND, FIRST OF ALL, ON THE SOLIDARITY OF THE CITIZENS. THE RESULTS WILL BE AS ENCOURAGING AND AS FAVORABLE AS THE COOPERATION OF THE CITIZENS. TO REGAIN TRANQUILITY IS NOT THE EXCLUSIVE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE ARMED FORCES OR THE STATE. IT IS A TASK IN WHICH EACH OF US HAS SOMETHING TO CONTRIBUTE.</p><p>COLOMBIA HAS SUCCESSFULLY OVERCOME EVEN MORE DIFFICULT MOMENTS. IT HAS FACED DECISIVELY AND EMERGED VICTORIOUSLY FROM EVEN MORE UNCERTAIN SITUATIONS. THAT PAST HAS CREATED SOLID INSTITUTIONS. FOR THIS REASON, I AM SURE THAT DEMOCRACY WILL TRIUMPH AND THAT THOSE WHO COMMIT VIOLENCE, REGARDLESS OF WHO THEY MAY BE, WILL BE PUNISHED. I AM SURE THAT WE WILL CONTINUE TO PROGRESS ALONG THE PATH OF PEACE, TOLERANCE, AND RESPECT FOR LIFE AND HUMAN DIGNITY. GOOD NIGHT.</p></body></html>