<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0021"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0021"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0021</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0021</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 8 AUG 89 (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [GENERAL COMMAND OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FMLN)] [TEXT] FMLN COMMUNIQUE TO ALL THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE: CONCERNING THE TELA AGREEMENTS, THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND HEREBY STATES THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>1. THESE AGREEMENTS ARE A VICTORY FOR THE REVOLUTIONARY, PROGRESSIVE, INDEPENDENT, AND DEMOCRATIC FORCES OF THE REGION, AND AS SUCH, WE STRONGLY PRAISE THEM.</p><p>2. THESE AGREEMENTS SEAL THE POLITICAL DEATH OF THE CONTRAS AND DECLARE TO THE WORLD THE FAILURE OF THE POLICY OF AGGRESSION THAT THE REAGAN ADMINISTRATION INITIATED AND CARRIED OUT AGAINST THE PEOPLE OF CENTRAL AMERICA.</p><p>3. ALTHOUGH THE GOVERNMENT AND ARMED FORCES WERE PREPARED TO PUT FORWARD A THEORY OF PARALLELS, ALL OF THEIR ALLEGED EVIDENCE WAS DERIDED AND DISCARDED.</p><p>4. CRISTIANI HAS SIGNED OFF ON THE CONTRAS' DEATH AND ACKNOWLEDGED BEFORE THE ENTIRE WORLD THAT THE FMLN IS A FORCE WITH WHICH IT MUST TALK AND NEGOTIATE. HE WENT TO TELA WITH A DIALOGUE PLAN TO COVER UP THE WAR, BUT HE WAS FORCED, UNDER THE AGREEMENTS, TO NEGOTIATE FOR PEACE WITH THE FMLN. CRISTIANI'S DIALOGUE COMMISSION, IN FACT, HAS BEEN DEMOBILIZED.</p><p>5. CRISTIANI WAS FORCED TO SIGN A PLEDGE FOR DEMOCRATIZATION WHEN HIS PLANS WAS TO FASCISTIZE EL SALVADOR.</p><p>6. THE FMLN REAFFIRMS ITS RESOLVE TO CONTINUE TO SUPPORT THE EFFORTS OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES, THE SAN SALVADOR ARCHBISHOPRIC, AND OTHER SOCIAL FORCES TO ESTABLISH A DIALOGUE AND NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE GOVERNMENT. IT IS CLEAR THAT THE CONTRAS WERE A MERCENARY FORCE MAINTAINED BY THE UNITED STATES, WHICH ATTACKED NICARAGUA FROM HONDURAS, AND WHICH SHOULD AND COULD BE DEMOBILIZED. IT IS CLEAR THAT THE FMLN IS A NATIONAL FORCE THAT HAS REASONS FOR BEING AT WAR, AND WITH WHICH PEACE MUST BE NEGOTIATED. NO ONE CAN DEMOBILIZE THE FMLN BECAUSE IT IS WITHIN THE COUNTRY AND IS A LEGITIMATE NATIONAL FORCE.</p><p>THE FMLN CALLS ON ALL FELLOW PATRIOTS WHO HAVE SOUGHT REFUGE IN HONDURAS, NICARAGUA, COSTA RICA, GUATEMALA, AND THE REST OF THE WORLD TO RETURN TO THE FATHERLAND. THEY ARE PROTECTED BY THE TELA AGREEMENTS. WE ASK ALL SALVADORANS TO DEMAND OF CRISTIANI THAT, WITHOUT FURTHER STRATAGEMS, HE CARRY OUT A SERIOUS NEGOTIATION; FULFILL HIS PLEDGE TO DEMOCRATIZE THE COUNTRY; STOP THE REPRESSION, KIDNAPPING, AND TORTURE; RELEASE ALL POLITICAL PRISONERS; GUARANTEE FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION; RESPECT REFORM; AND ABOLISH THE ECONOMIC MEASURES THAT ARE DEEPENING THE WAR.</p><p>[SIGNED] FMLN GENERAL COMMAND</p><p>[DATED] 7 AUGUST 1989</p></body></html>