<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0071"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0071"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LA PAZ"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0071</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0071</p><p>LA PAZ, 25 MAY 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] TWO U.S. MORMON MISSIONARIES -- AGED 19 AND 21 -- WERE SHOT TO DEATH LAST NIGHT BY A GROUP OF TERRORISTS FROM THE ZARATE WILKA ARMED FORCES OF LIBERATION [FAL].</p><p>THIS IS THE SAME TERRORIST GROUP THAT CLAIMED CREDIT FOR THE FOILED ATTACK AGAINST FORMER U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE GEORGE SHULTZ IN AUGUST 1988. IN OCTOBER, THE GROUP BLEW UP THE LINES PROVIDING POWER TO LA PAZ, RESULTING IN A POWER OUTAGE THERE. THE GROUP ALSO CLAIMED CREDIT FOR THE JANUARY DYNAMITE BOMBING IN THE CONGRESS.</p><p>THE MURDER TOOK PLACE AT 2220 LAST NIGHT AND, 30 MINUTES LATER, THE TERRORISTS LEFT MESSAGES WITH LOCAL NEWSPAPERS CLAIMING TO BE THE ASSAILANTS.</p><p>THE MESSAGE, WHICH WAS HANDRITTEN, SAID: "THE VIOLATION OF OUR NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY CANNOT REMAIN UNPUNISHED. THIS IS A WARNING TO THE YANKEE INVADERS WHO COME HERE TO MASSACRE OUR PEASANT BROTHERS AND TO THEIR LACKEYS. WE POOR HAVE NO OTHER OPTION BUT TO TAKE UP ARMS. OUR HATRED IS IMPLACABLE, AND OUR WAR IS TO THE DEATH. FAL, ZARATE WILKA."</p><p>THE U.S. CITIZENS -- TODD RAY WILSON BURDENSON AND JEFFREY BRENT BALL -- WERE MISSIONARIES OF THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH OF LATTER DAY SAINTS (HEADQUARTERED IN UTAH), WHICH, IN RECENT YEARS, HAS EXTENDED ITS ACTIVITIES IN BOLIVIA BY BUILDING DOZENS OF TEMPLES. BOTH MISSIONARIES HAD LIVED IN THE VICINITY OF THE GENERAL CEMETERY LOCATED IN A DENSELY POPULATED LA PAZ DISTRICT. THEY WERE KILLED WITH TWO BURSTS OF MACHINEGUN FIRE.</p><p>A MORMON CHURCH SPOKESMAN SAID THAT THIS WAS AN ATTACK AGAINST "TWO INNOCENT PEOPLE" AND CALLED ON THE POLICE TO SOLVE THE MURDER. HE SAID THAT LAST YEAR DYNAMITE WAS PLACED AT A TEMPLE IN THE SAME AREA BUT THAT THE CULPRITS WERE NEVER IDENTIFIED.</p><p>THE BOLIVIAN GOVERNMENT HAS CONDEMNED THE ATTACK AND ORDERED AN IMMEDIATE INVESTIGATION. DEPUTY INTERIOR MINISTER WALTER COSTAS ANNOUNCED THAT THE TRAFFIC AND POLICE DEPARTMENTS WILL CARRY OUT DRAGNETS IN LA PAZ.</p><p>THE KILLING OF THE U.S. MISSIONARIES HAS COINCIDED WITH THE ARRIVAL IN BOLIVIA OF THE FIRST CONTINGENT OF U.S. MILITARY ENGINEERS, TECHNICIANS, AND TROOPS, WHO WILL BE IN CHARGE OF THE TASK OF LEVELING PATTI-PATTI HILL TO BUILD AN AIRPORT FOR THE CITY OF POTOSI.</p></body></html>