<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0070"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0070"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BUENOS AIRES"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0070</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0070</p><p>BUENOS AIRES, 25 JAN 90 (NA) -- [TEXT] THE GROUP THAT STORMED THE 3D INFANTRY REGIMENT IN LA TABLADA INTENDED TO OVERTHROW THE CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITIES AND TO IMPLEMENT "A PLAN OF GOVERNMENT" WITH ARMY FUNDS. THE GROUP ALSO SOUGHT TO DISSOLVE THE ARMED FORCES.</p><p>ACCORDING TO DOCUMENTS THAT WERE SEIZED FROM THE TERRORISTS BY INTELLIGENCE SERVICES, THE ATTACKERS PLANNED TO ISSUE A PROCLAMATION. THE PROCLAMATION STATES THAT THE SO-CALLED "PEOPLE'S GOVERNMENT," ALLEGEDLY TO HAVE BEEN INSTALLED BY THEM, WOULD ADOPT THE FOLLOWING MEASURES:</p><p>1. TO DECREE A 150-PERCENT SALARY INCREASE FOR ALL PEOPLE EARNING 2,000 AUSTRALES OR LESS;</p><p>2. TO DECREE A 100-PERCENT SALARY INCREASE FOR ALL PEOPLE EARNING 3,000 AUSTRALES;</p><p>3. TO DECREE A 40-PERCENT SALARY INCREASE FOR PEOPLE WHO EARN UP TO 6,000 AUSTRALES;</p><p>4. TO INCREASE MINIMUM PENSIONS TO 4,000 AUSTRALES;</p><p>5. TO ELIMINATE ALL PRIVILEGED PENSIONS FOR THE MILITARY, DEPUTIES, SENATORS, COUNCILMEN, CABINET MEMBERS, AND SECRETARIES OF STATE;</p><p>6. TO DECREE A PRICE FREEZE AND TO DECREE THAT ALL THOSE WHO VIOLATE THE ESTABLISHED PRICE FREEZE, AS WELL AS SPECULATORS AND HOARDERS, WILL BE PUNISHED WITH SENTENCES OF UP TO 20 YEARS; IT WIL BE UP TO THE PEOPLE TO CONTROL THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THIS PRICE FREEZE;</p><p>7. TO DECREE THE IMMEDIATE SUSPENSION OF EVICTIONS AND DECREE A FREEZE ON HOUSE RENTS;</p><p>8. TO DECREASE INTEREST RATES AND NEGATIVE RATES, EVEN ON PREVIOUSLY ESTABLISHED CREDITS;</p><p>9. TO CANCEL IMMEDIATELY DEBTS CONTRACTED WITH THE FINANCIAL MARKET;</p><p>10. TO CANCEL DEBTS CONTRACTED BY SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SIZED FARMERS WITH THE BANKING SECTOR;</p><p>11. TO IMPLEMENT UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE OF 2,000 AUSTRALES PER CHILD;</p><p>12. TO IMPLEMENT A SUBSIDY FOR UNWED MOTHERS OF 3,000 AUSTRALES;</p><p>13. THE PEOPLE'S GOVERNMENT HEREBY NATIONALIZES THE BANKING SECTOR; THE IAPI, ARGENTINE INSTITUTE FOR PROMOTION OF FOREIGN TRADE, [INSTITUTO ARGENTINO DE PROMOCION DEL INTERCAMBIO] IS REESTABLISHED;</p><p>14. ARTICLE NO 40 OF THE 1949 CONSTITUTION IS HEREBY ESTABLISHED: "ENERGY SOURCES ARE THE INALIENABLE PROPERTY OF THE NATION."</p><p>THE REST OF THE TERRORIST PROCLAMATION STATES:</p><p>THIS IS A NATIONAL EMERGENCY AND SOLIDARITY PLAN THAT WILL BE IMPLEMENTED FOR 120 DAYS. IT SEEKS TO PROMOTE INVESTMENTS FOR PRODUCTION, AND CONSUMPTION. WITHIN THIS 120-DAY PERIOD, THE PROPER NATIONAL SECTORS WILL HELP IN THE DRAFTING OF A SHORT-, MEDIUM-, AND LONG-TERM ECONOMIC PLAN THAT WILL PROTECT THE INTERESTS OF THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY.</p><p>THE FUNDS TO FINANCE THIS NATIONAL EMERGENCY AND SOLIDARITY PLAN WILL DERIVE FROM:</p><p>1. THE ELIMINATION OF THE MILITARY BUDGET, SINCE THE ARMY HAS BEEN REPLACED BY THE POPULAR MILITIAS OF THE PEOPLE'S RESISTANCE FRONT;</p><p>2. THE EXPRESSION OF ALL THE PROPERTIES OF JOSE ALFREDO MARTINEZ DE HOZ AND OF ALL MILITARY OFFICERS WHO HAVE MORE THAN ONE HOUSE AND ONE CAR; THE SAME WILL APPLY TO ALL UNION LEADERS;</p><p>3. THE EXPROPRIATION OF THE FINANCIAL MARKET;</p><p>4. THE SUSPENSION OF INTEREST PAYMENTS ON THE FOREIGN DEBT.</p><p>THIS PLAN IS BASED ON THE SOLIDARITY OF MILLIONS OF ARGENTINES, THE IMMENSE MAJORITY OF WORKERS, PRODUCERS, AND UNEMPLOYED. WE HAVE THE ABSOLUTE RIGHT TO LIVE IN A FATHERLAND WITH LIBERTY AND SOCIAL JUSTICE, WHERE ALL MEN ARE BROTHERS, AND WHERE THE WEALTH OF THE COUNTRY MAY BE ENJOYED BY EVERYONE IN KEEPING WITH HIS WORK, HIS CREATIVITY, AND HIS HONESTY.</p></body></html>