<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0010"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0010"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-19"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0010</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0010</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 19 MAR 89 (RADIO CADENA SONORA) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] ESTEEMED MEMBERS OF THE GOVERNMENT COMMISSION:</p><p>TODAY, 9 MARCH, WE HAVE RECEIVED A MESSAGE SIGNED BY THE MEMBERS OF YOUR COMMISSION ASKING US TO BEGIN THE PEACE TALKS. WE HAVE ALREADY ADDRESSED THIS ISSUE ON NUMEROUS OCCASIONS, EXPRESSING OUR WILLINGNESS TO HOLD A MEETING. THE GOVERNMENT COMMISSION'S LETTER MAKES NO MENTION OF ANY MOVE TO POSTPONE THE ELECTIONS. IT DOES NOT EVEN CONSIDER INCLUDING THIS TOPIC ON THE MEETING'S AGENDA. ON THE CONTRARY, IT IS CLEAR THAT THE COMMISSION HAS ALREADY DECIDED TO HOLD THE ELECTIONS ON 19 MARCH.</p><p>CONSEQUENTLY, THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] HEREBY INFORMS THE GOVERNMENT COMMISSION AND THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE OF THE FOLLOWING:</p><p>1. THE GOVERNMENT COMMISSION MUST CLEARLY AND PUBLICLY ANNOUNCE THAT IT IS WILLING TO REACH AN AGREEMENT ON CONFINING THE ARMY TO ITS BARRACKS ON THE DAY OF THE ELECTIONS, ESTABLISHING AN ELECTORAL CODE BY CONSENSUS, PROVIDING ABSENTEE VOTING FOR SALVADORANS LIVING ABROAD, RESTRUCTURING THE CENTRAL ELECTIONS COUNCIL, AND FORMING A COUNCIL FOR VERIFICATION.</p><p>MORE IMPORTANTLY, IT MUST EXPRESS THE STATE POWERS' WILLINGNESS TO POSTPONE THE ELECTIONS FOR 5 MONTHS, ONCE A CEASE-FIRE HAS BEEN AGREED UPON. WE ALSO BELIEVE THAT THE GOVERNMENT COMMISSION MUST PUBLICLY ANNOUNCE THAT IT IS WILLING TO BRING MILITARY COMMANDERS AND OFFICERS RESPONSIBLE FOR POLITICAL MURDERS AND CRIMES TO TRIAL, TO REDUCE THE SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES TO THE NUMBER OF TROOPS IT HAD IN 1968, AND TO DISBAND THE SECURITY FORCES TO FORM A NEW CIVIL POLICE. WE REITERATE OUR WILLINGNESS TO DISCUSS PERMANENTLY CEASING THE ARMED STRUGGLE.</p><p>2. IF THE GOVERNMENT COMMISSION AGREES TO THE ABOVE REQUESTS, THE FMLN WILL AGREE TO A MEETING AND IS WILLING TO IMMEDIATELY DECIDE ON A DATE AND A TIME FOR THE MEETING. THE FMLN IS EVEN WILLING TO HOLD THE MEETING OUTSIDE EL SALVADOR. AS A PART OF THIS MEETING, WE ARE WILLING TO NEGOTIATE AND COME TO AN AGREEMENT WITH THE ARMED FORCES STAFF ON A CEASE-FIRE THAT WILL BRING ABOUT A PERMANENT AND NEGOTIATED SOLUTION TO THE CONFLICT.</p><p>3. IF NO SUCH AGREEMENT IS REACHED, THEN THERE IS NO POINT IN HOLDING THE MEETING PRIOR TO 19 MARCH, BECAUSE IT WILL SIMPLY BE USED BY BOTH THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY [PDC] AND THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE [ARENA] IN THEIR ELECTION DISPUTE. THE ELECTIONS PLAY NO ROLE IN ACHIEVING PEACE; THEY ONLY SERVE TO PROVIDE A FALSE JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUING THE WAR.</p><p>4. WE AWAIT A RESPONSE FROM THE GOVERNMENT COMMISSION.</p><p>EL SALVADOR, 9 MARCH 1989</p><p>FMLN GENERAL COMMAND</p><p>[SIGNED] COMMANDER SALVADOR SANCHEZ CEREN</p><p>COMMANDER FRANCISCO JOVEL</p><p>COMMANDER JORGE SHAFIK HANDAL</p><p>COMMANDER EDUARDO SANCHO</p><p>COMMANDER JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS</p></body></html>