<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0064"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0064"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0064</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0064</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), NO DATE (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [PRESIDENT DANIEL ORTEGA] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] IN THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT THERE ARE ALSO CRIMINALS LIKE VICE PRESIDENT MERINO, A MAN WHO HAS PERSONALLY PARTICIPATED IN CRIMES AGAINST THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE, AGAINST THE SALVADORAN [WORD INDISTINCT]. THERE IS ALSO D'AUBUISSON, WHO IS ANOTHER ASSASSIN WHO HAS PARTICIPATED IN CRIMES AGAINST THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p><p>NICARAGUA IS GOING TO DEMAND PUNISHMENT FOR THE ASSASSINS OF PRIESTS AND OF SALVADORAN PEOPLE FROM THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY. IT WILL DEMAND THAT THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY BREAK RELATIONS WITH EL SALVADOR AND THAT IT TAKE MEASURES AGAINST THAT CRIMINAL GOVERNMENT UNTIL IT STOPS THE BOMBINGS AND THE CRIMES AND IT PUNISHES THE CRIMINALS.</p><p>WHAT WE ARE INTERESTED IN IS PEACE AND DEMOCRACY, BUT NOT THE PEACE OF GRAVEYARDS. THERE IS PEACE IN CEMETERIES [WORDS INDISTINCT]. THAT IS THE PEACE THEY WANT FOR EL SALVADOR, THE PEACE OF GRAVEYARDS. THEY WANT TO TURN EL SALVADOR INTO A CEMETERY. IN OTHER WORDS, [WORDS INDISTINCT]. HOWEVER, THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE ARE COURAGEOUS. THEY ARE HEROIC PEOPLE WHO KNOW HOW TO FIGHT. THEY HAVE BEEN SHOWING THIS. THEY HAVE GREAT [WORDS INDISTINCT].</p><p>WE ARE GOING TO CONTINUE STRUGGLING IN THE INTERNATIONAL SPHERE TO ACHIEVE PEACE. IT IS NOT WE NICARAGUANS, IT IS NOT I BREAKING THE ESQUIPULAS AGREEMENTS. I WILL CONTINUE TO DEFEND THEM SO THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT WILL ABIDE BY THEM, BECAUSE HUMAN RIGHTS MUST BE RESPECTED. ON 7 AUGUST 1987, THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT SIGNED AN AGREEMENT SAYING THAT IT WAS GOING TO RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS, AND IT IS NOT ABIDING BY THAT AGREEMENT. IT HAS TO COMPLY WITH THAT AGREEMENT EVEN IF IT WITHDRAWS FROM THE PEACE TALKS, EVEN IF IT DOES NOT WANT TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETINGS OF CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS.</p><p>WE ARE ALSO GOING TO CONTINUE STRUGGLING IN THE INTERNATIONAL SPHERE, IN THE UNITED NATIONS, SO THAT AN AGREEMENT WILL BE REACHED TO COMPLY WITH THE REMOVAL OF THE CONTRAS FROM HONDURAS. IF THE CONTRAS DO NOT WANT TO LEAVE HONDURAS, WELL, WHAT HAS BEEN SHOWN ON THIS BORDER, IN THESE HEROIC TOWNS OF [NAME INDISTINCT], VILLANUEVA, SOMOTILLO, [NAME INDISTINCT], SAN PEDRO, SAN BENITO, SAN FRANCISCO, AND SANTO TOMAS? ALL THOSE NAMES ARE KNOWN IN THE WORLD FOR THE HEROIC BATTLES WHICH HAVE BEEN WAGED THERE TO REJECT THE COUNTERREVOLUTIONARIES WHO HAVE RECEIVED ALL TYPES OF SUPPORT FROM THE YANKEES. THE YANKEES HAVE GIVEN THE CONTRAS ALL TYPES OF ARMAMENTS, INCLUDING MORE THAN 300 SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILES.</p><p>WE ARE GOING TO ACHIEVE PEACE BECAUSE THE NICARAGUAN PEOPLE WANT PEACE. THE TOWNS IN NORTHERN NICARAGUA WANT PEACE. THEY WANT PEACE. DO YOU WANT PEACE? [CROWD SHOUTS: "YES!"] OR DO YOU WANT WAR? [CROWD SHOUTS: "NO!"] DO YOU WANT PEACE? [CROWD SHOUTS: "YES!"] [QUESTION AND ANSWER REPEATED TWO MORE TIMES] WE ARE GOING TO ACHIEVE PEACE. WE ARE GOING TO ACHIEVE TOTAL PEACE BY ALWAYS VIGOROUSLY FIGHTING THE COUNTERREVOLUTIONARIES AND DEFEATING THE YANKEES IN THE ELECTIONS ON 25 FEBRUARY 1990. [APPLAUSE] WE ARE GOING TO THROW SHOVELFULS OF DIRT AT THE CONTRAS AND THE YANKEES ON 25 FEBRUARY 1990, BECAUSE THE YANKEES HAVE CREATED WHAT IS CALLED THE UNO. IT IS A MIXTURE OF PEOPLE WHO ARE [WORDS INDISTINCT]. IT IS A SALAD BUT WITH ROTTEN FRUIT. [APPLAUSE, LAUGHTER] IT IS A SALAD WITH ROTTEN FRUIT. WHO CAN EAT A SALAD WITH ROTTEN FRUIT? CAN YOU BE DECEIVED [WORDS INDISTINCT]? THE NICARAGUAN PEOPLE ARE GOING TO SHOW ON 25 FEBRUARY THEIR DESIRE FOR PEACE AND DEMOCRACY AND THEIR SUPPORT FOR THE PLANS OF THE REVOLUTION. THESE ARE GOING TO BE ELECTIONS BETWEEN NICARAGUA AND THE YANKEES. THE CANDIDATES ARE GOING TO BE BUSH ON THE ONE SIDE AND DANIEL ON THE OTHER. THOSE ARE THE CANDIDATES. WHO ARE THE PEOPLE GOING TO VOTE FOR? [INDISTINCT SHOUTS] ARE YOU GOING TO VOTE FOR BUSH? [CROWD SHOUTS: "NO!"] THOSE OTHER ONES, THE ONES GOING AROUND THERE, THEY DO NOT REPRESENT ANYTHING. BUSH IS PAYING THOSE PEOPLE TO BE PRETENDING [WORDS INDISTINCT]. THE REAL ENEMY HERE IS THE YANKEES WHO HAVE ORGANIZED AND FINANCED THE UNO. THE YANKEES CANNOT SOLVE THE NICARAGUAN PROBLEMS, BECAUSE THEY CANNOT EVEN SOLVE HONDURAS' PROBLEM. THEY CANNOT SOLVE ITS ECONOMIC PROBLEM, EVEN THOUGH THE HONDURAN GOVERNMENT HAS LENT ITSELF FOR THE YANKEE MANEUVERING. I AM NOT TALKING ABOUT THE HONDURAN PEOPLE. YOU KNOW THAT THE HONDURAN PEOPLE ARE COMBATIVE AND BRAVE. WHAT IS THE ARMY USED FOR IN HONDURAS? WHAT IS IT USED FOR? TO MASSACRE THE PEOPLE [PASSAGE INDISTINCT]. THE CONTRAS ARE IN HONDURAN TERRITORY. WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR GETTING THOSE CONTRAS OUT? IT IS UP TO THE HONDURANS, IT IS UP TO THE HONDURAN ARMY. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>