<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0066"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0066"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MAPUTO (MOZAMBIQUE)"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0066</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0066</p><p>MAPUTO (MOZAMBIQUE), NO DATE (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [REPORT] [FRELIMO CENTRAL COMMITTEE] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE FRELIMO PARTY APPRECIATES AND SUPPORTS EFFORTS MOUNTED BY THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT AND OTHER STATES OF CENTRAL AMERICA TO RESTORE PEACE, AND CALLS ON ALL THE INTERESTED FORCES TO CREATE CONDITIONS TO APPLY THE PEACE PLAN AS AGREED UPON. WE VALUE OUR RELATIONS OF FRIENDSHIP AND COOPERATION WITH THE SANDINIST NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT.</p><p>IN THE REPUBLIC OF CUBA, THE PEOPLE'S POWER HAS CONSOLIDATED AND THE REVOLUTION CAN NOW FUNDAMENTALLY CONCENTRATE ITS EFFORTS ON THE TECHNICAL AND SCIENTIFIC DEVELOPMENT OF THE COUNTRY AND THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE QUALITY OF LIFE OF THE PEOPLE. THE [FRELIMO] PARTY SALUTES THE RELATIONS OF FRIENDSHIP AND COOPERATION BETWEEN OUR PARTIES, STATES, AND PEOPLES, AND EXPRESSES THE HOPE THAT THESE RELATIONS WILL CONTINUE TO DEVELOP FURTHER. THE [FRELIMO] PARTY HOPES THAT THE WINDS OF PEACE NOW BLOWING WILL CONTRIBUTE TO ELIMINATING THE HOTBEDS OF TENSION THROUGHOUT ALL OF CENTRAL AMERICA AND LATIN AMERICA IN GENERAL SO THAT THE PEOPLE OF THAT ZONE MAY BENEFIT FROM PEACE AND TRANQUILITY TO UNDERTAKE THE NECESSARY FIGHT AGAINST MISERY AND BACKWARDNESS.</p><p>IN EUROPE, DURING THE PERIOD UNDER EXAMINATION, THE RELATIONS OF FRIENDSHIP AND SOLIDARITY WITH OUR PEOPLE WERE DEEPENED, WHILE THE COOPERATION OF THE MOZAMBICAN STATE WITH THE EUROPEAN COUNTRIES WAS BROADENED. IN GENERAL TERMS, WE HAVE BEEN CLOSELY FOLLOWING THE PROCESS TO ESTABLISH THE EUROPE OF 12 AND THE TRANSFORMATIONS BEGUN IN VARIOUS SOCIALIST COUNTRIES.</p><p>THE [FRELIMO] PARTY VIEWS POSITIVELY THE CONTINUATION OF THE PROCESS OF CONSOLIDATION OF THE EUROPE OF 12 AND HOPES THAT THIS PROCESS WILL POSITIVELY CONTRIBUTE TO BALANCED RELATIONS BETWEEN NORTH AND SOUTH.</p><p>THE [FRELIMO] PARTY SALUTES THE COURAGE DEMONSTRATED BY THE CPSU LEADERSHIP, PARTICULARLY COMRADE MIKHAIL GORBACHEV, BY FACING THE GREAT CHALLENGE OF CRITICAL REFLECTION AND FOR THE RECTIFICATIONS NOW IN PROGRESS IN THE USSR.</p><p>THE TRANSFORMATIONS TAKING PLACE IN VARIOUS SOCIALIST COUNTRIES OPEN AN ENCOURAGING AND PROFITABLE THEORETICAL DEBATE ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF SOCIALISM THAT WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE CONTINUE IN A CLIMATE OF UNITY AND SOLIDARITY. THE [FRELIMO] PARTY IS FOLLOWING THIS PERIOD OF REFLECTION ON THE PROCESS OF THE BUILDING OF SOCIALISM IN EUROPEAN COUNTRIES AND IT IS OVERJOYED BY THE FACT THAT THIS PROCESS CONTINUES TO SAFEGUARD COOPERATION WITH OUR COUNTRY. WE ARE AWARE THAT THESE CHANGES TAKING PLACE IN SOCIALIST COUNTRIES, PARTICULARLY THE CHANGES THAT ARE OBSERVED IN THE USSR WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF PERESTROYKA AND GLASNOST, HAVE AN IMPORTANT IMPACT AT THE LEVEL OF THE [MARXIST-LENINIST] PARTIES AND THE PROGRESSIVE FORCES, AS WELL AS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS IN GENERAL. THIS IMPACT HAS BEEN VERY POSITIVE AND HAS DECISIVELY CONTRIBUTED TO CREATE A NEW ATMOSPHERE IN RELATIONS AMONG THE SUPERPOWERS AND IN THE PROCESS OF DETENTE THAT CURRENTLY CHARACTERIZES THE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>