<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0058"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0058"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0058</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0058</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 15 OCT 89 (CANAL SEIS TELEVISION) -- [TEXT] ACCORDING TO SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI, THE GOVERNMENT HAS RECEIVED REPORTS, WHICH HE DESCRIBED AS DISTURBING, THAT THE REBELS ARE PLANNING TO UNLEASH AN OFFENSIVE IN THE CAPITAL CITY ON THE VERY DAY WHEN PEACE TALKS ARE SCHEDULED TO BEGIN IN COSTA RICA. GOVERNMENT REPORTS SUGGEST THAT THE INSURGENTS WILL NOT ONLY STEP UP THEIR ACTIONS TO DESTROY THE ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE AND MURDER GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, BUT ALSO THREATEN TO USE GROUND-TO-AIR MISSILES AGAINST THE CITY.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CRISTIANI] ALTHOUGH THE PEACE PROCESS IS UNDER WAY, WE HAVE RECEIVED REPORTS THAT THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] COMMAND HAS AUTHORIZED A PLAN TO STEP UP VIOLENCE IN SAN SALVADOR THROUGH THE USE OF GROUND-TO-AIR MISSILES.</p><p>WE BELIEVE THAT THIS SHOWS ABSOLUTELY NO WILLINGNESS TO BRING ABOUT PEACE IN OUR COUNTRY. THE MEDIA SHOULD REVEAL TO ALL SALVADORANS AND THE ENTIRE WORLD WHAT THE FMLN IS PLANNING TO DO. [END RECORDING]</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE PRESIDENT, THESE FMLN PLANS DO NOT CONTRIBUTE TO THE PEACE PROCESS THAT BEGAN IN SEPTEMBER IN MEXICO. WHEN ASKED WHETHER THESE ACTIONS PLANNED BY THE FMLN COULD HARM THE TALKS IN COSTA RICA, CRISTIANI SAID THAT THIS WILL DEPEND ON THE SITUATION THAT PREVAILS AT THE MEETING. HE ADDED THAT THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT OPPOSES THE USE OF THE TALKS FOR TACTICAL PURPOSES.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CRISTIANI] IF THE FMLN WANTS TO USE THE PROCESS FOR TACTICAL PURPOSES, WE WILL NOT LEND OURSELVES TO THEIR GAME. OUR OBJECTIVE HAS BEEN TO SEEK PEACE IN GOOD WILL. HOWEVER, I REPEAT, WE WILL NOT LEND OURSELVES TO A FMLN TACTICAL GAME. I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT WE CAN MAKE ANY PREDICTIONS AT THIS MOMENT. THE OUTCOME WILL DEPEND ON THESE ALLEGED PLANS AND DEVELOPMENTS IN COSTA RICA. [END RECORDING]</p><p>AN END TO THE HOSTILITIES WILL BE DISCUSSED IN THIS ROUND OF TALKS. THUS, THIS MEETING COULD BE CRUCIAL FOR ACHIEVING NATIONAL PEACE. CRISTIANI MAINTAINED THAT THIS MEETING WILL BE USEFUL TO GAUGE THE INTENTIONS OF THE GUERRILLA FRONT.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CRISTIANI] WE WILL PRESENT A GOVERNMENT PROPOSAL. IT IS AN BROAD PROPOSAL BECAUSE IT DEALS WITH VARIOUS ISSUES, EVEN THE POSSIBLE INCORPORATION OF THE FMLN TO CIVILIAN AND DEMOCRATIC LIFE. IT SPECIFICALLY DEALS WITH AN END TO THE HOSTILITIES, A TOPIC THAT WE HAD AGREED TO ADDRESS IN COSTA RICA DURING OUR MEETING IN MEXICO. WE ARE WILLING TO DISCUSS ANY TOPIC THAT IS WITHIN OUR CONSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR THE SAKE OF DEMOCRACY. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE PRESIDENT DESCRIBED AS BENEFICIAL THE UN AND OAS PRESENCE AT THE TALKS, BECAUSE THEY WILL GUARANTEE COMPLIANCE WITH THE AGREEMENTS SIGNED IN COSTA RICA.</p><p>ONLY A DAY BEFORE THE BEGINNING OF THE TALKS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE FMLN, THE PRESIDENT SAID THAT DESPITE AN INCREASE IN WAR ACTIONS, THE MEETING IN COSTA RICA WILL NOT FACE OBSTACLES.</p></body></html>