<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0041"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0041"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0041</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0041</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 13 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] ATTENTION, WE HAVE A LAST MINUTE REPORT. RADIO VENCEREMOS REPORTS TO OUR PEOPLE ON THE FIGHTING THAT IS UNDER WAY IN SAN SALVADOR. WE ARE GOING TO GIVE YOU MILITARY INFORMATION FROM THE METROPOLITAN WAR FRONT, AS FOLLOWS:</p><p>THERE HAS BEEN FIGHTING AGAINST ATLACATL BATTALION ARMORED VEHICLES IN <span about="http://sws.geonames.org/3586832/">CUSCATANCINGO</span>. AT 0700, THERE WAS AN EXTENSIVE AMBUSH IN WHICH SIX ARMORED VEHICLES WERE DESTROYED. THE AMBUSH WAS STAGED AGAINST ATLACATL BATTALION TROOPS IN CUSCATANCINGO WHO WERE ON THEIR WAY TO REINFORCE ENEMY POSITIONS UNDER ATTACK IN VARIOUS POINTS OF THE CAPITAL. OUR FORCES USED ROCKET LAUNCHERS AND SMALL ARMS FIRE, AS WELL AS EXPLOSIVES, TO AMBUSH THIS CONVOY, DESTROYING SIX ARMORED VEHICLES.</p><p>IN ADDITION, FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION [FMLN] FIGHTERS ATTACKED BELLOSO BATTALION TROOPS IN AYUTUXTEPEQUE. THE BELLOSO BATTALION CALLED FOR AIR SUPPORT, WHICH IT RECEIVED, BUT THIS HAS RESULTED IN MORE CIVILIAN CASUALTIES BECAUSE THE HELICOPTERS USED HAVE BEEN BOMBING AND STRAFING THE CIVILIAN POPULATION IN THE AYUTUXTEPEQUE AREA. THE DESPERATE AIR SUPPORT HAS RESULTED IN MORE CIVILIAN VICTIMS.</p><p>MEANWHILE, FMLN FORCES BEGAN ATTACKING ENEMY POSITIONS IN LOS SANTOS, BOSQUES DEL RIO, AND UNICENTRO, IN SOYAPANGO.</p><p>IT WAS ALSO REPORTED THAT BARRICADES ARE CONSTANTLY BEING BUILT IN THE NEIGHBORHOODS AND RESIDENTIAL AREAS OF SAN SALVADOR'S NORTHERN AND SOUTHERN SECTORS. THESE ARE BARRICADES BUILT BY YOUTHS, STUDENTS, WORKERS, WOMEN, AND CHILDREN WHO HAVE TAKEN TO THE STREETS TO HELP WITH FOOD AND INFORMATION AND WHO, WITH THEIR OWN HANDS, ARE BUILDING BARRICADES AND ANSWERING THE CALL OF THE VANGUARD: THE FMLN.</p><p>WE ARE RECEIVING A REPORT WHICH INDICATES THAT THE FIGHTING WHICH HAD DECREASED IN THE UNIVERSITY AREA RESUMED AT 0600 THIS MORNING.</p></body></html>