<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0088"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0088"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0088</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0088</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 28 NOV 89 (FBIS) -- [EDITORIAL REPORT] [TEXT] SAN SALVADOR DOMESTIC SERVICE IN SPANISH AT 1245 GMT ON 28 NOVEMBER BEGINS BROADCASTING A NUMBER OF REPORTS ON CLASHES BETWEEN SALVADORAN ARMED FORCES TROOPS AND FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] REBELS ON 27 AND 28 NOVEMBER.</p><p>THE FIRST REPORT STATES THAT THE SALVADORAN TREASURY POLICE THWARTED AN FMLN ATTEMPT TO OCCUPY THE SAN SEBASTIAN NEIGHBORHOOD, CIUDAD DELGADO MUNICIPALITY. THE REPORT ADDS THAT APPROXIMATELY 50 "TERRORISTS" TRIED TO ENTER CIUDAD DELGADO AT 0500 ON 28 NOVEMBER AND THAT THEY CLASHED WITH TREASURY POLICE MEMBERS SUSTAINING TWO CASUALTIES. THE REPORT CONCLUDES SAYING THAT THE AUTHORITIES CONFISCATED ONE AK-47 RIFLE, ONE M-16 RIFLE, AMMUNITION FOR BOTH WEAPONS, AND SEVERAL STICKS OF DYNAMITE.</p><p>THE SECOND REPORT INDICATES THAT 4TH INFANTRY BRIGADE TROOPS CLASHED WITH FMLN FORCES AT NORTHERN LOS GUEVARAS HAMLET, LA LAGUNA JURISDICTION, CHALATENANGO DEPARTMENT. THE REPORT GOES ON TO SAY THAT AS A RESULT OF THE CLASHES, ONE REBEL WAS KILLED AND ONE M-16 RIFLE AND A COMMUNICATION RADIO WERE CONFISCATED.</p><p>THE NEXT REPORT SAYS THAT MILITARY DETACHMENT NO. 1 REPORTED THAT TWO OF ITS MEMBERS WERE WOUNDED AFTER A GUERRILLA HARASSMENT OPERATION CONDUCTED IN CHIAPAS CANTON AND TEPEYAC HAMLET, CHALATENANGO CITY. THE SAME REPORT ADDS THAT MILITARY DETACHMENT NO. 3 MEMBERS STATIONED IN LA UNION DEPARTMENT REPORTED THAT TWO FMLN REBELS WERE KILLED AND FIVE OTHERS WOUNDED DURING CLASHES NEAR EL REFUGIO FARM, SAN MIGUEL JURISDICTION IN THE AFTERNOON OF 27 NOVEMBER. THE REPORT ADDS THAT ONE SOLDIER WAS KILLED AND THREE OTHERS WERE WOUNDED AS A RESULT OF THE ATTACK.</p><p>THE NEXT REPORT SAYS THAT ARMED FORCES MILITARY TRAINING CENTER MEMBERS CONFISCATED 13 AR-15 RIFLES, 10 M-16 RIFLES, 1 HEAVY-CALIBER MORTAR, 2 GRENADES, AND EXPLOSIVES DURING A COMBING OPERATION IN ZAMORAN CANTON, SAN MIGUEL JURISDICTION. THE SAME REPORT ADDS THAT 3D INFANTRY BRIGADE TROOPS CONFISCATED 3 M-60 MACHINEGUNS, 5 M-16 RIFLES, 1 RPG-18 ROCKET LAUNCHER, 150 CARTRIDGES AND EXPLOSIVES AT LAS LOMITAS CANTON AND EL MOLINO NEIGHBORHOOD IN SAN MIGUEL CITY.</p><p>THE LAST REPORT INDICATES THAT THE NATIONAL POLICE DESTROYED AN FMLN SECURITY HOUSE IN NUEVA SAN SALVADOR, SANTA TECLA CITY, LA LIBERTAD DEPARTMENT. THE REPORT ADDS THAT THE ARMY TROOPS ARRESTED ONE FMLN "TERRORIST." THE REPORT SAYS THAT "DURING THIS SEARCH OPERATION, THE ARMY TROOPS CONFISCATED 3 SUBMACHINEGUNS, 1 SOVIET-MADE RPK AUTOMATIC RIFLE, 4 AKM RIFLES, 1 DRAGUNOV RIFLE, 1 AK-47 RIFLE, OVER 40,000 CARTRIDGES, 3,800 DETONATING PLUGS, 200 BENGAL LIGHTS, 6 GRENADES FOR RPG-2 GRENADE LAUNCHERS, 112 MANUALS FOR TERRORISTS, AND OTHER WAR MATERIEL."</p><p>THE REPORT CONCLUDES SAYING THAT DURING ANOTHER SEARCH OPERATION IN VALLE NUEVO NEIGHBORHOOD, ILOPANGO, NATIONAL POLICE MEMBERS DISCOVERED ANOTHER FMLN SECURITY HOUSE AND CONFISCATED 2 SUBMACHINEGUNS, 2 RIFLES, 650 CARTRIDGES, 6 STICKS OF DYNAMITE, 58 DETONATING PLUGS, AND OTHER EXPLOSIVES.</p></body></html>