<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0059"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0059"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-06-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0059</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0059</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 9 JUN 89 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [REPORT] [ERNESTO RIVAS] [TEXT] PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI HOLDS THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ASSASSINATION OF DR JOSE ANTONIO RODRIGUEZ PORTH AND CALLED THE ATTACK AN ATTEMPT TO HINDER DIALOGUE. THE PRESIDENT HAS ORDERED 3 DAYS OF NATIONAL MOURNING IN HONOR OF THE SLAIN MINISTER.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CRISTIANI] WE ARE GOING TO RESPOND LEGALLY. WE WILL IMMEDIATELY BEGIN THE REQUISITE EXHAUSTIVE INVESTIGATIONS TO FIND AND PUNISH THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR A CRIME AGAINST THE LIFE OF AN EXEMPLARY CITIZEN. [END RECORDING]</p><p>PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI BLAMED THE FMLN FOR MINISTER RODRIGUEZ PORTH'S DEATH. HE SAID THIS ATTACK IS PART OF A SERIES OF ACTIONS AIMED AT DESTABILIZING THE NEW GOVERNMENT.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CRISTIANI] WE ARE VIRTUALLY CONVINCED THAT THIS WAS AN FMLN EFFORT, AN FMLN INCIDENT, TO TRY AND PROVOKE A REACTION FROM OUR GOVERNMENT. WE FEEL THAT THE INVESTIGATIONS WILL UNDOUBTEDLY SHOW US WHO IS TO BLAME FOR THIS REGRETTABLE INCIDENT; HOWEVER, I REPEAT WE ARE ALMOST SURE THAT THIS WAS DONE BY THE FMLN.</p><p>WE HAD HOPED THE FMLN WOULD REFRAIN FROM THIS TYPE OF BARBARIC ACTION; HOWEVER, IT IS THE DUTY OF THE ARMED FORCES AND THE SECURITY CORPS TO OFFER PROTECTION. THIS IS WHY THEY HAVE BEEN DEPLOYED: TO OFFER GREATER SAFETY AND PROTECTION TO THE PEOPLE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>DURING THIS EVENING'S RADIO VENCEREMOS NEWSCAST, HOWEVER, THE REBELS NEITHER CLAIMED NOR DENIED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACK. NEVERTHELESS, PRESIDENT CRISTIANI SAID THE ASSASSINATION MAY HAVE BEEN CARRIED OUT BY THE FMLN IN AN ATTEMPT TO HINDER THE DIALOGUE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [CRISTIANI] WE HAD LEARNED, EVEN BEFORE THE INAUGURATION, THAT THE FMLN WOULD TRY TO HINDER THE TRANSITION FROM ONE GOVERNMENT TO ANOTHER AND LATER CREATE ANARCHIC SITUATIONS FOR THE NEW GOVERNMENT. THIS COULD BE PART OF THAT PLAN.</p><p>I ALSO FEEL THAT THIS COULD BE THE FMLN'S WAY TO FORCE US TO SIT DOWN AND TALK. IT WOULD BE REGRETTABLE THAT AFTER RECEIVING A FORMAL OFFER TO SIT DOWN TO TALK -- FIRST ABOUT THE MECHANISMS TO BE USED AS GUIDELINES DURING THE TALKS AND LATER TO BROACH THE MAIN ISSUES IN AN ATTEMPT TO REACH A LASTING PEACE IN OUR COUNTRY -- THE FMLN SHOULD STILL THINK THAT SUCH ACTIONS ARE NECESSARY. I THINK THEY ARE ONLY TRYING TO DISRUPT THE NEW GOVERNMENT'S WORK. [END RECORDING]</p><p>DURING THIS EVENING'S NEWS CONFERENCE, PRESIDENT CRISTIANI SAID THAT DURING TODAY'S CABINET MEETING IT WAS DECIDED TO ASK THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY TO DECREE 3 DAYS OF MOURNING FOR DR RODRIGUEZ PORTH.</p></body></html>