<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0096"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0096"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="GUATEMALA CITY"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0096</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0096</p><p>GUATEMALA CITY, 28 MAR 89 (CADENA DE EMISORAS UNIDAS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT] [TEXT] THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT REPORTS THAT ON SUNDAY, 26 MARCH, AS RELATIVES WERE VISITING THE PAVON REHABILITATION FARM, A PRISON REVOLT ERUPTED. THE REVOLT WAS STARTED BY 28 PRISONERS -- ALL CONSIDERED VERY DANGEROUS -- ORGANIZED INTO SEVEN GROUPS.</p><p>THE MUTINIOUS PRISONERS WORKED OUT A DETAILED PLAN AND ATTACKED VARIOUS IMPORTANT OFFICES, SUCH AS THE ARMORY, WHERE THEY SEIZED ABOUT 90 CARBINES AND MUCH AMMUNITION, WHICH THEY IMMEDIATELY USED TO ATTACK THE SECURITY GUARDS. AT THE TIME, THERE WERE 107 MEN, 366 WOMEN, AND 154 CHILDREN -- A TOTAL OF 627 PEOPLE -- VISITING THE DETAINEES. THEY HAVE BEEN HELD HOSTAGE SINCE THE UPRISING BEGAN.</p><p>THE PRISONERS' ESCAPE ATTEMPT WAS THWARTED BY THE SECURITY GUARDS, WHO WERE ABLE TO CARRY OUT THEIR ASSIGNED MISSION. THE GUARDS WERE ABLE TO REPEL THE SURPISE ATTACK; HOWEVER, CORRECTIONAL OFFICERS BUENAVENTURA MARTINEZ, 47, AND GERONIMO ALVARADO, 21, WERE KILLED IN THE CLASH.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT STATES THAT ACCORDING TO ITS INVESTIGATION, THE LEADERS OF THE RIOT WERE JULIO ENRIQUE REYES GRANADOS, MARCO ANTONIO SANTIZO LINARES, AND VICTOR MANUEL VELIZ DUARTE, WHO ARE DOING TIME FOR KIDNAPPING CHILDREN, EXTORTION, MURDER, ROBBERY, ASSAULT AND BATTERY, AND OTHER CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES. VELIZ DUARTE WAS KILLED IN THE CLASH BY GUNSHOTS TO HIS JAW AND STOMACH. HE HAD BEEN SENTENCED TO 30 YEARS IN PRISON FOR DOUBLE MURDER.</p><p>FOLLOWING THE UNSUCCESSFUL UPRISING IN THE PAVON MODEL REHABILITATION FARM, A COMMISSION OF PRISONERS HAS PRESENTED A HUMANITARIAN PETITION TO THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT, WHICH IS BEING CONSIDERED. OTHER LEGAL PETITIONS WILL BE DEALT WITH BY THE APPROPRIATE ORGANIZATIONS.</p></body></html>