<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0079"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0079"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0079</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0079</p><p>BOGOTA, 6 MAR 90 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS, IN PROGRESS] [TEXT] ...NOT ONLY OF THE PROVISIONS OF THE ANDEAN PACT, BUT ALSO OF THE VAST HORIZONS OF THE CARIBBEAN AND THE CENTRAL AMERICAN REGION. AS WE JOIN EFFORTS, AS WE STRENGTHEN OUR CAPABILITIES, AND WITH THE LONG TRADITION OF DEMOCRACY THAT WE SHARE, WE CAN OFFER OUR CONTRIBUTION TO STRENGTHENING OUR DEMOCRACY. ALL THE DEMOCRATS OF THE AMERICAS WHO SEE IN YOU, MR. PRESIDENT PEREZ, A GREAT FIGHTER, ARE NOW CELEBRATING A POSITIVE WAVE OF LEGITIMATE ELECTIONS, FOR EXAMPLE IN URUGUAY, CHILE, BRAZIL, COSTA RICA, AND NICARAGUA. VERY SHORTLY COLOMBIA AND LATER PERU WILL HOLD ELECTIONS. PANAMA, IN TURN, HAS CALLED FOR POPULAR CONSULTATION IN THE FORM OF A REFERENDUM SO THAT THE PEOPLE WILL DECIDE ON IMPORTANT CONSTITUTIONAL REFORMS.</p><p>THROUGHOUT THE AMERICAS, DEMOCRACY IS THE PATH AND THAT IS WHY IT WILL BE THE ADEQUATE MEANS FOR STRENGTHENING THE OAS AS A REGIONAL ORGANIZATION IN WHICH THE VARIOUS TRENDS AND IDEOLOGIES WITHIN A COMMON OBJECTIVE OF SEARCHING FOR PEACE, FREEDOM, LIBERTY, AND JUSTICE MAY AND SHOULD BE EXPRESSED AND CONSULTED ON. THERE, THE MEMBERS WILL BE ABLE TO DISCUSS TOPICS THAT AFFECT US IN A DIRECT MANNER, SUCH AS INTERNATIONAL TRADE, FOREIGN DEBT, AND TECHNICAL COOPERATION, AS WELL AS HOW TO INCREASE THE SCOPE OF ACTION WITH VARIOUS INTERLOCUTORS, SUCH AS THE CASE OF CANADA, THE ENTRY IF WHICH INTO THE OAS WE WARMLY WELCOME.</p><p>THEREFORE, LET US CONSIDER THE REASONS FOR THIS MEETING WHICH WE DO NOT HESITATE IN TERMING HISTORIC. THE DOCUMENTS ARE EVIDENCE OF HOW MUCH WE HAVE ADVANCED IN SPECIFIC ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE FIELDS OF ENERGY, COMMUNICATIONS, TRANSPORTATION, AND BORDER TRANSIT; IN JOINT PROGRAMS IN CITY PLANNING SUCH AS THE CUCUTA-VILLA EL ROSARIO-SAN ANTONIO-URENA; IN THE AGRO-INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SECTORS, AND IN INDIAN ETHNIC GROUPS, CUSTOMS, AND EDUCATION. ALL OF THESE ARE TOPICS WE HAVE DISCUSSED OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS WITH OUR RESPECTIVE TEAMS. HOWEVER, THERE IS ONE TOPIC THAT I WISH TO EMPHASIZE.</p><p>THERE IS AN ENEMY WHO SEEKS TO DESTROY THE INTEGRATIONIST AND DEMOCRATIC PROJECT. THERE ARE ANACHRONISTIC REDOUBTS OF A SUBVERSIVE NATURE THAT ARE TODAY ENFENCED BY OUR MILITARY FORCES AND OUR HARD WORKING PEOPLE. THE ENEMY FEELS HIS DAYS ARE NUMBERED AND HE EXPRESSES HIMSELF THOUGH VIOLENT ACTIONS WITH KIDNAPPINGS, EXTORTION, AND INDISCRIMINATE TERRORISM; BY DESTROYING OIL PIPELINES AND CONTAMINATING RIVERS, WATER BASINS, AND LAGOONS. OUR COMMISSIONS HAVE SUGGESTED POSITIVE MEANS FOR WORKING JOINTLY ON THESE RIVERS, WATER BASINS, AND LAGOONS, AND HAVE SIGNED AN AGREEMENT THAT IS ALREADY BEING IMPLEMENTED ON OIL SPILLS AND ACCIDENTS.</p><p>COLOMBIAN DEMOCRACY WILL PREVAIL OVER THIS INTERNAL ENEMY, AND UNDOUBTEDLY THE INTEGRATION PROGRAMS WILL CONTINUE WITH RENEWED VIGOR. THE TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT OF THE WATER RESOUCES, THE ELECTRICITY AND TELEPHONE INTERCONNECTIONS, THE FEASIBILITY STUDIES FOR THE VARIOUS ALTERNATE ROUTES THAT WILL CONNECT US, THE REOPENING OF THE BRIDGES THAT WERE CLOSED 30 YEARS AGO, THE UTILIZATION OF THE CAMILO DAZA AIRPORT IN CUCUTA AS AN ALTERNATE AIRPORT FOR SAN ANTONIO, THE AGREEMENT ON FISHING POLICIES, THE PLANS TO INCREASE CROPS RANGING FROM SUGARCANE AND COTTON TO CHIQUI-CHIQUI FIBER ARE POSITIVE ANSWERS TO THOSE WHO INSIST ON DISRUPTING THINGS.</p><p>THE INTERNATIONAL POLICY TODAY NOT ONLY UNDERSTANDS THE TRADITIONAL CONCEPT AND THE PRESERVATION OF NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY, BUT ABOVE ALL, IT POINTS TO PEOPLE'S WELL-BEING AND INCREASES THEIR CAPABILITIES FOR CONSUMPTION. IT IS NOT BY BLOWING UP OIL PIPELINES OR PREVENTING THE PEOPLE WHO LIVE ALONG THE RIVER BANKS OF BOTH COUNTRIES FROM FISHING OR BY POISONING THEIR CROPS THAT PEOPLE'S WELL-BEING WILL BE ACHIEVED.</p><p>I AM SURE THAT THE SAN PEDRO ALEJANDRINO DOCUMENT WE SIGNED TODAY IS A GRADUAL, BUT DECISIVE STEP TOWARD AUTHENTIC LATIN AMERICAN INTEGRATION. BY THE DECISION OF THEIR PEOPLE AND PROMOTED BY THEIR RULERS IN THIS SIMPLE ROOM WHERE THE LIBERATOR DIED, WE ARE TODAY CONSOLIDATING THESE BASES THAT WILL NOT BE DESTROYED AND WILL PREVENT IN THE FUTURE ANY FURTHER FRUSTRATIONS OF THE DREAMS OF THE LIBERATOR, BOLIVAR.</p><p>MIXED COMMISSIONS WILL BE APPOINTED SHORTLY AND WILL GET DOWN TO WORK IN WHAT WE STILL HAVE YET TO DO. THEY WILL CONTINUE WITH A TRULY LIBERATING TASK, THAT TODAY -- AS FROM THE TIMES OF THE CONGRESS OF ANGOSTURA -- IS UNITING OUR TWO NATIONS. THANK YOU. [APPLAUSE]</p></body></html>