<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0030"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0030"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-16"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY (PERU)"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0030</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0030</p><p>NO CITY (PERU), 16 SEP 89 -- [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [GARCIA] AS A LATIN AMERICAN PRESIDENT, I FEEL A LITTLE BIT UNCOMFORTABLE OVER THE STATEMENT THAT THE NORTH AMERICANS ARE VICTIMS OF THE DRUGS PRODUCED IN LATIN AMERICA AND THAT COLOMBIA, PERU, AND BOLIVIA ARE TO BLAME FOR PRODUCING THE DRUGS; LET'S CALL THOSE COUNTRIES TO TALK WITH THEM. THAT SEEMS TO ME A VERY ETHNOCENTRIC VISION; IT LOOKS AT THIS MATTER FROM ONLY ONE SIDE. OUR PEASANTS ARE POOR PEOPLE WHO PRODUCE WHATEVER IS MOST PROFITABLE, AND COCA CULTIVATION HAPPENS TO BE MOST PROFITABLE FOR THEM. THIS IS SO, SPEAKING COLDLY, HONESTLY, AND SINCERELY. AS PRESIDENT OF PERU I HAVE TO POINT OUT THAT MY PEOPLE, THE HUALLAGE REGION PEASANTS, CANNOT BE CONSIDERED AS CRIMINALS OR AS PEOPLE WHO MUST BE JAILED FOR PRODUCING COCA LEAVES.</p><p>WE HAVE EXCHANGED THESE VIEWS WITH PRESIDENT BARCO, AND WE REACHED THESE CONCLUSIONS. WE MUST ALSO NOTE THAT THIS MATTER HAS BEEN HANDLED WITH A GREAT DEAL OF PUBLICITY. AFTER THE DEATH OF CARLOS GALAN, A GREAT COLOMBIAN LEADER, THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT LAUNCHED AN OFFENSIVE INTENDED TO FIND OUT WHETHER THE DRUG TRAFFICKING BANDS WERE RESPONSIBLE FOR HIS ASSASSINATION, AND THE U.S. GOVERNMENT THEN EXTENDED SOME ASSISTANCE. THIS ASSISTANCE HAS BEEN PRESENT TO THE WORLD AS THOUGH THE UNITED STATES HAD SENT AN ENORMOUS QUANTITY OF AIRCRAFT, HUNDREDS OF HELICOPTERS, AND THOUSANDS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS TO COLOMBIA. AS I WAS ABLE TO SEE IN BOGOTA, ONLY HELICOPTERS, SOME OF WHICH HAD BEEN PURCHASED EARLIER BY THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT, WERE SENT. I WAS ALSO INFORMED THAT SOME OF THOSE HELICOPTERS HAD BEEN USED PREVIOUSLY IN PERU.</p><p>I HAVE SAID THAT, IF THERE IS THAT MUCH CONVICTION, I SUPPORT PRESIDENT BUSH FOR DEFENDING U.S. SOCIETY. IF HE HAS THAT MUCH CONVICTION, IT IS HARD TO BELIEVE THAT LESS THAN ONE THOUSANDTH OF WHAT IS SPENT IN ARMS AND MILITARY EXPENDITURES SHOULD BE ALLOCATED TO REPLACE COCA PLANTATIONS AND TO IMPROVE THE GENERAL SITUATION IN LATIN AMERICA. WE HAVE TALKED WITH PRESIDENT BARCO, AND I WILL TALK WITH PRESIDENT PAZ ZAMORA TO SEE HOW WE CAN EXCHANGE OPINIONS. THEN, AS PRESIDENT BUSH SAID, A MEETING OF PRESIDENTS WILL BE WELCOME. BUT THE MEETING SHOULD ALSO BE ATTENDED BY EUROPE, WHICH HAS A FUNDAMENTAL INTEREST IN THE FUTURE.</p><p>[CORRESPONDENT] WOULD THE IDEA BE TO HOLD A MEETING IN THE NEAR FUTURE OF PERU, COLOMBIA, AND BOLIVIA WITH PRESIDENT BUSH AND A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE EEC?</p><p>[GARCIA] YES, BECAUSE DRUG TRAFFICKING IS A GROWING PROBLEM. CARTELS HAVE SPROUTED IN COLOMBIA -- MONOPOLIES THAT TRY TO ELECT DEPUTIES AND SENATORS TO INFLUENCE THE GOVERNMENT. THOSE MONOPOLIES MIGHT EXTEND THEIR OPERATIONS TO OUR COUNTRIES IF WE DO NOT STOP THIS GROWING PROBLEM. THE SITUATION CAN BECOME WORSE IN BOLIVIA, WHERE IT WAS SAID THAT THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS HAD AN INFLUENCE ON A DICTATORIAL MILITARY REGIME. IT IS NOT JUST A MATTER OF PROTECTING THE MORALITY OF HUMANITY; IT IS NOT JUST A MATTER OF DEFENDING THE UNITED STATES, WHICH HAS A PRIMARY ROLE IN WORLD LEADERSHIP; IT IS ESSENTIALLY A MATTER OF DEFENDING OUR DEMOCRACY -- THE LEGITIMACY AND CLEANLINESS OF OUR SOCIAL LIFE. I HOPE THAT WE CAN HAVE A MEETING OF THE THREE PRESIDENTS FIRST, SO THAT WE CAN LET THE U.S. PRESIDENT KNOW OUR VIEWS ON THE OVERALL PROBLEM.</p><p>[CORRESPONDENT] WILL YOU PROPOSE THAT MEETING, MR PRESIDENT?</p><p>[GARCIA] I DON'T WANT TO ASSUME A LEADING ROLE. THE IDEA EMERGED IN A CONVERSATION WITH PRESIDENT BARCO, AND I WILL TALK LATER WITH PRESIDENT PAZ ZAMORA.</p><p>[CORRESPONDENT] A MEETING BETWEEN YOU AND PRESIDENT BUSH LATE THIS MONTH HAS BEEN MENTIONED. IS THIS TRUE, MR PRESIDENT?</p><p>[GARCIA] NO, I BELIEVE THAT HAS BEEN MERE SPECULATION IN THE PRESS. FOR THE TIME BEING I HAVE DISCARDED THE IDEA OF MAKING ANOTHER TRIP ABROAD. I DO NOT SEE THE CONCRETE POSSIBILITY OF MEETING WITH PRESIDENT BUSH, ALTHOUGH I HOPE WE CAN MEET SOMETIME BEFORE 28 JULY 1990.</p><p>[CORRESPONDENT] CHANGING THE SUBJECT, MR PRESIDENT -- MUCH HAS BEEN SAID IN RECENT DAYS ABOUT THE POSSIBLE OR PROBABLE EXPULSION OF PERU FROM THE IMF. WHAT IS THE TRUTH ABOUT THIS, AND WHAT WOULD EXPULSION MEAN?</p><p>[GARCIA] WELL, FIRST, IT IS POLITICALLY IMPOSSIBLE FOR PERU TO BE EXPELLED FROM THE IMF. SECOND, THERE IS MISINFORMATION AND ALARMISM REGARDING THE MATTER. WHAT IS THE IMF? IT IS SOME SORT OF CREDITOR BANK CREATED IN 1946 THAT LENDS MONEY TO COUNTRIES WITH BALANCE-OF-PAYMENTS PROBLEMS; THAT IS, WITH PROBLEMS WITH THEIR FOREIGN RESERVES LEVELS. WHEN A COUNTRY HAS NO RESERVES OR ONLY $100 MILLION IN RESERVES, IT CAN APPLY FOR A CREDIT FROM THE IMF TO PAY FOR IMPORTS OR OVERDUE DEBTS. THIS IS THE IMF, AN ORGANIZATION CREATED TO FACILITATE THE FLOW OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL RESOURCES. AN IMF CREDIT IS DEPENDENT ON SIGNING A LETTER OF INTENT OR AN ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM. ADJUSTMENT MEANS REDUCING THE COUNTRY'S INTERNAL CONSUMPTION SO AS TO SPARE THE COUNTRY'S RESERVES IN ORDER TO MEET DEBT OBLIGATIONS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>