<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0032"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0032"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BUENOS AIRES"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0032</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0032</p><p>BUENOS AIRES, 18 MAY 90 (NA) -- [TEXT] NEXT JUNE AN ENTIRE U.S. ARMY COMPANY WILL CARRY OUT JOINT MANEUVERS WITH ARGENTINE TROOPS IN A PROVINCE OF THE LITTORAL REGION. THE MANEUVERS, DESIGNED TO TEACH THE ARGENTINE OFFICERS THE LATEST TECHNIQUES AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING, FALL WITHIN THE COMPREHENSIVE MILITARY EXCHANGE PLAN. GENERAL MAXWELL THURMAN'S VISIT IS ALSO PART OF THE AFOREMENTIONED PLAN.</p><p>ACCORDING TO RELIABLE SOURCES, THE RECENT VISIT FROM THE UNITED STATES OF 10 LIEUTENANT COLONELS, THREE COLONELS, AND EIGHT CIVILIAN EXPERTS IN DEFENSE STRATEGY, REPRESENT AN IMPORTANT STEP IN THE RENEWED U.S.-ARGENTINE MILITARY RELATIONSHIP.</p><p>THE SAME SOURCES HAVE STATED THAT THE GRADUAL AND RESTRICTED PARTICIPATION OF THE ARMY IN MANEUVERS DESIGNED TO PRACTICE FIGHTING AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING HAS BEEN AUTHORIZED BY THE DEFENSE MINISTRY AND EVEN BY THE PRESIDENT.</p><p>THE MILITARY GROUP THAT ARRIVED IN ARGENTINA ON 6 MAY CARRIED OUT WAR GAMES AT THE WAR SCHOOL AND THE CAMPO DE MAYO MILITARY SCHOOL AND, LATER ON, CARRIED OUT FIELD MANEUVERS. OTHER FORCES PARTICIPATED IN THE THREE-DAY MANEUVERS THAT WERE CARRIED OUT ON AN ISLAND IN THE RIVER PLATE DELTA. ACCORDING TO A WITNESS, THE MANEUVERS CONSISTED OF "RAIDS" INCLUDING "SURPRISE" SITUATIONS THAT FORCED THE U.S. TROOPS TO ENDURE BAD WEATHER AND BAD TERRAIN.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE FINAL EVALUATION, THE MANEUVERS WERE REGARDED AS "SATISFACTORY AND SUCCESSFUL". ACCORDING TO THE PROGRAM, A COMPLETE U.S. COMPANY THAT WILL TRAIN WITH ARGENTINE TROOPS IN A PROVINCE OF THE LITTORAL REGION IS SCHEDULED TO ARRIVE IN JUNE.</p><p>FOREIGN MINISTRY SOURCES CONFIRMED THE EXISTENCE OF EXCHANGE PLANS BUT STATED THAT GENERAL THURMAN HAD PROPOSED TO THE CHIEFS OF STAFF THE POSSIBILITY OF CARRYING OUT JOINT MANEUVERS TO FIGHT DRUG TRAFFICKING DURING A LUNCHEON.</p><p>THE SOURCES STATED THAT THE CHIEFS OF STAFF HAVE MADE SOME OBJECTIONS TO THE PROPOSAL AND DID NOT REACH ANY AGREEMENT. HOWEVER, SOURCES THAT PARTICIPATED IN THE RECENT MANEUVERS ON THE ISLAND HAD A DIFFERENT OPINION AND RATIFIED THAT ANOTHER MANEUVER WOULD BE HELD IN A PROVINCE OF THE LITTORAL IN JUNE.</p><p>ANYHOW, THE STATEMENT OF THE FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESMAN FALLS WITHIN THE DIPLOMATIC POLICY THAT MAY PARTLY DIFFER WITH THE MILITARY AND DEFENSE POLICIES, AS WAS POINTED OUT BY A SECTOR OF THE MEDIA YESTERDAY.</p><p>MOREOVER, GENERAL THURMAN WILL REMAIN IN SAN CARLOS DE BARILOCHE UNTIL SATURDAY, 19 MAY, AND THAT SAME DAY WILL FLY TO THE IGUAZU FALLS FROM WHERE HE WILL RETURN TO HIS MILITARY BASE IN PANAMA.</p><p>THE ONLY PURPOSE OF GENERAL THURMAN'S VISIT WAS TO OFFER THE DEFENSE MINISTRY ALL THE TECHNOLOGY, KNOW HOW, AND WEAPONS FOR THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING WHICH, IN MANY CASES TURNS INTO NARCOTERRORISM, IN OTHER WORDS, THE USE OF DRUG TRAFFICKING TO FINANCE THE PURCHASE OF WEAPONS AND TERRORIST ACTIONS. THURMAN'S VISIT, WHICH TOOK THE UNITED STATES A WHOLE YEAR TO ARRANGE, WAS PREVIOUSLY APPROVED BY THE U.S. SENATE.</p><p>WITHIN THE SAME FRAMEWORK, THE BOLIVIAN POLICE HAVE JUST RECEIVED WEAPONS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT AMOUNTING TO $50 MILLION, WHICH IS ENOUGH TO EQUIP TWO COMPLETE BATTALIONS IN CHARGE OF FIGHTING DRUG TRAFFICKERS.</p><p>THEREFORE, THE ARGENTINE GOVERNMENT'S DECISION TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING LAUNCHED BY THE UNITED STATES IS PART OF A COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGY OF THE SOUTHERN CONE OF WHICH ARGENTINA -- ACCORDING TO EXPERTS -- MUST PARTICIPATE OUT OF FEAR OF A GROWING ISOLATION.</p><p>IT IS QUITE LIKELY THAT THE RESTRICTED AND GRADUAL -- BY NO MEANS MASSIVE -- PARTICIPATION OF THE ARMY AND PROBABLY THE NAVY IN MANEUVERS FOR THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING MAY BE THE KEY THAT WILL FINALLY ALLOW THE ARMED FORCES TO ACQUIRE THE WAR MATERIEL, SPARE PARTS AND OTHER ELEMENTS IT NEEDS.</p><p>THE ANALYSTS HAVE RECALLED THAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT'S DETERMINATION TO FIGHT CORRUPTION -- A PROBLEM THAT ALSO WORRIES PRESIDENT CARLOS MENEM AND VICE PRESIDENT EDUARDO DUHALDE -- FALLS WITHIN THE SAME FRAMEWORK BECAUSE, IN THE EXPERTS' OPINION, IT IS THE EQUIVALENT TO DRUG TRAFFICKING.</p><p>HIGHLY RELIABLE SOURCES HAVE RECALLED THAT 30 DAYS AGO PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH SENT PRESIDENT MENEM TWO VOLUMES OF A U.S. EDITION ON TECHNIQUES TO FIGHT CORRUPTION.</p></body></html>