<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0005"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0005"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-11"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0005</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0005</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 11 DEC 89 (RADIO SANDINO) -- [NEWS CONFERENCE WITH LIEUTENANT COLONEL RICARDO WHEELOCK, CHIEF OF THE NICARAGUAN MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIRECTORATE BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTERS] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [REPORTER] [WORDS INDISTINCT] HOW ABOUT THE SANDINIST SOLDIERS THAT ALLEGEDLY [WORDS INDISTINCT]. NO SANDINIST SOLDIERS ARE BEING HELD BY THE CREW OF THAT BOAT?</p><p>[WHEELOCK] THAT IS WHAT I SAID. FURTHERMORE, ONE OF THE BOATS WITH 50 CREW MEMBERS HAS SHOWN UP IN HONDURAS AND IT IS WHAT IS CAUSING THIS PROBLEM.</p><p>[REPORTER] THERE ARE SOME PROBLEMS WITH SOME COLOMBIANS CONCERNING CONTRABAND, RIGHT?</p><p>[WHEELOCK] WE ARE THERE TO PROTECT THE FISHING RESOURCES AND TO PREVENT ANY TYPE OF DRUG TRAFFICKING, GUN RUNNING OR ANY MERCHANDISE CONTRABAND.</p><p>[REPORTER] [WORDS INDISTINCT] HOW DID THE MUTINY OCCUR?</p><p>[WHEELOCK] FROM THE TIME THEY WERE CAPTURED AND ON THE WAY TO CORN ISLAND, ONE OF THE OFFICERS ON BOARD WAS CARELESS. THEN, THE COOK AND THE CAPTAIN DISARMED ONE OF THE SOLDIERS, TOOK AWAY HIS RIFLE, AND THEY KILLED HIM. THE CREW THEN AVAILED ITSELF OF THIS INCIDENT TO RISE UP IN MUTINY. THE CAPTAIN WAS STRANGLING ONE OF THE OFFICERS WHEN ANOTHER OFFICER PULLED UP GUN ON HIM. HE IS THE CAPTAIN WHO RAN THE SHIP AGROUND IN A CORAL REEF. [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE SHIPOWNERS WILL HAVE TO PAY A FINE AND AFTER THE FINE IS PAID, THEY MUST COMPLY WITH ALL LEGAL REQUIREMENTS SO THAT THE BOAT AND CREW ARE RETURNED TO THEM.</p></body></html>