<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0043"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0043"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0043</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0043</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [INTERVIEW WITH FMLN COMMANDER SANCHO BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [REPORTER] COMMANDER, DO THE RN LEADERS AGREE THAT THE FMLN SHOULD EVENTUALLY JOIN THE SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL [SI] AS HAS BEEN PROPOSED CONCERNING THE SANDINIST NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FSLN] IN NICARAGUA?</p><p>[SANCHO] WE THINK SO, BECAUSE SI HAS REPRESENTED, FOR THE PAST 30-40 YEARS, A EUROPEAN INTERNATIONAL POLITICAL BLOC THAT HAS SUPPORTED THE STRUGGLE....[CORRECTS HIMSELF] THAT HAS SHOWN INTEREST IN THE THIRD WORLD. IN OTHER WORDS, WE BELIEVE THAT EVERY INTERNATIONAL POLITICAL BLOC THAT TRULY WANTS TO ESTABLISH RELATIONS AND HELP -- WHILE STILL DEFENDING EUROPEAN INTERESTS -- IS VIABLE AND POSITIVE. THE FMLN MUST NECESSARILY JOIN THE SI.</p><p>[REPORTER] IN THE 1970'S [WORDS INDISTINCT] STRUGGLE IN OUR COUNTRY AND THE WAR RESULTED FROM A DECISION ADOPTED BY THE PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY ARMY [ERP]. VIRTUALLY NO ONE TALKS ABOUT THIS WITHIN THE FMLN NOW, YET THE RIGHT-WING SECTORS ALWAYS REMEMBER THE RESULTING SITUATIONS WITHIN THE LEFT-WING SECTORS. WHAT DOES THE RN THINK ABUT THE ERP IN 1990?</p><p>[SANCHO] WE HAVE STATED AND WE HAVE PUT IT IN WRITING -- IT IS GOOD TO HAVE IT IN WRITING -- THAT THE LEFT BECAME DIVIDED AND THE ERP BECAME DIVIDED BECAUSE WE WERE NOT FIRM ENOUGH, POLITICALLY AND IDEOLOGICALLY SPEAKING. WE BELIEVE THAT THE ERP LEADERSHIP ACTED CHILDISHLY [WORDS INDISTINCT], BUT WE CAN NOW SAY THAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED MATURITY IN EVERY SECTOR. THE OPTIONS WE HAVE CHOSEN WITHIN THE FMLN HAVE ALLOWED US TO CLEARLY SEE THE OUTCOME OF THE DECISIONS WE ADOPTED IN THE PAST.</p><p>THIS HAS OBVIOUSLY BEEN [WORD INDISTINCT] AND MISCONSTRUED BY THE ENEMY IN ITS PROPAGANDA AND PSYCHOLOGICAL WAR, BECAUSE IT LOVES TO SAY THAT REVOLUTIONARIES ALWAYS END UP KILLING EACH OTHER. [WORDS INDISTINCT] THE IDEOLOGICAL STRUGGLE [WORDS INDISTINCT] INDICATES THAT WE [WORDS INDISTINCT] AND UNITY HAS PREVAILED WITHIN THE FMLN. WE CONSIDER THE DIVISION A PROCESS THAT IS PART OF EL SALVADOR'S HISTORY AND WE SHOULD NOT CRY OVER SPILT MILK. NO ONE SHOULD DEPLORE.... [CHANGES THOUGHT] WE CANNOT SPECULATE ON WHAT MIGHT HAVE HAPPENED. IT WAS THE RESULT OF OUR IMMATURITY.</p><p>[REPORTER] COMMANDER, EVERYONE KNOWS THE NAMES OF THE FMLN LEADERS -- PARTICULARLY THE FIVE MEMBERS OF THE GENERAL COMMAND -- BUT THIS IS SOMETHING NEW. YOU WERE PREVIOUSLY KNOWN AS FERMAN CIENFUEGOS AND NOT EVERYONE KNEW THAT YOU WERE EDUARDO SANCHO COLOMBARI. THERE IS ALWAYS A CLANDESTINE ELEMENT INVOLVED. WHY IS THERE ALWAYS A TENDENCY TO REMAIN ANONYMOUS?</p><p>[SANCHO] I THINK THAT AFTER 10 OR 20 YEARS IN HIDING WE [WORDS INDISTINCT] POLITICAL CONDUCT THAT DOES NOT CORRESPOND TO MODERN TIMES AND OUR POLITICAL NEEDS. THEREFORE, THE GENERAL COMMAND NEEDS [WORDS INDISTINCT] SPECIFIC CONDITIONS, MEANING THE NEED FOR THE GENERAL COMMAND MEMBERS TO GO PUBLIC. WE BELIEVE THAT THE GENERAL COMMAND MEMBERS SHOULD GO PUBLIC AND STATE THEIR VIEWS SO THAT THEY PEOPLE CAN LEARN MORE ABOUT THEM, THEIR HUMAN SIDE, AND THEIR PERSONALITIES. IT IS IMPORTANT FOR THE PEOPLE AND THE WORLD TO KNOW ABOUT THE LEADERS' PERSONALITIES AS THEY ARE. THIS HAS BEEN -- LET US CALL IT A DEFECT OR LIMITATION. SECRECY IS A DEVIATION AND A PERSON CAN MAINTAIN.... [CORRECTS HIMSELF] COMBINE SECRECY WITH OUR POLITICAL ROLE. WE NOW WE HAVE TO OVERCOME THAT DEVIATION, MEANING SECRECY AND ANONYMITY.</p><p>[REPORTER] YES.</p><p>[SANCHO] I BELIEVE WE ARE TRYING TO OVERCOME THIS.</p></body></html>