<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0053"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0053"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0053</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0053</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE -- [INTERVIEW WITH COMMANDER JORGE MELENDEZ] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [MELENDEZ] COL VARGAS' REACTION WAS TO BECOME DESPERATE BECAUSE 90-MM, 60-MM, AND 81-MM MORTARS, AND 85-MM FIELD GUNS HAVE BEEN INDISCRIMINATELY FIRED AGAINST THAT SECTOR OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD FOR 3 DAYS; ROCKETS HAVE BEEN FIRED FROM AIRPLANES. MANY CIVILIANS HAVE BEEN WOUNDED AND MANY HOUSES HAVE BEEN DESTROYED. IN OTHER WORDS, THERE HAS BEEN NO RESPECT WHATSOEVER -- PERHAPS BECAUSE THOSE NEIGHBORHOODS ARE LOCATED CLOSEST TO THE 3D INFANTRY BRIGADE, AND THAT SEEMS TO WORRY THIS MAN VERY MUCH. THIS COULD BE THE REASON FOR SUCH AN ATTITUDE AND FOR THAT GENOCIDAL SITUATION.</p><p>IN OTHER PLACES, CLASHES OCCURRED PRACTICALLY ALL DAY LONG ON 12 AND 13 NOVEMBER, AND DURING THE EARLY MORNING HOURS OF 14 NOVEMBER IN THE MILAGRO DE LA PAZ NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE WE CAUSED A CONSIDERABLE NUMBER OF CASUALTIES. IN ADDITION, OUR FORCES FOILED AND STOPPED THE ARCE BATTALION, PONCE BATTALION, LEON BATTALION, AND THE MONTERROSA FORCES [78-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] SURVEILLANCE AND SECURITY MEASURES, AND TO HANDLE ANY TYPE OF EMERGENCY, INCLUDING BOMBINGS, MORTAR ATTACKS, AND STRAFINGS. THIS MEANS THAT THE TERRAIN MUST BE PREPARED TO DEFEND THE POPULATION.</p><p>WE ALSO HAVE A NUMBER OF INSTRUCTION REGARDING THE TASKS TO BE DONE DURING TIMES OF COMBAT, BUT THIS IS GEARED TOWARD THE POPULATION WHO DECIDES TO PARTICIPATE BY DIRECTLY SUPPORTING THE FMLN. THIS INVOLVES MANY PEOPLE. THEY CAN JOIN NEW FORCES AND GROUPS IN CHARGE OF THE TRENCHES, SECURITY MEASURES, COURIERS, AND ALL KINDS OF TASKS TO SUPPORT THE WAR.</p><p>IN SUM, THE INSTRUCTIONS TO THE POPULATION ARE TO ORGANIZE THEMSELVES BECAUSE, ONCE ORGANIZED, THEY CAN GIVE [4-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] AND COUNTER IT. THE OTHER ISSUE IS THE CALLS TO THE POPULATION TO PARTICIPATE IN THE STRUGGLE AND ABOVE ALL [7-SECOND BREAK IN RECEPTION] NOT TO LET ANYONE INTIMIDATE THEM. THEY SHOULD NOT LET ANYONE STOP THEM FROM GOING OUT TO PURCHASE THEIR FOOD AND WHATEVER ELSE THEY NEED.</p><p>GIVEN THE EMERGENCY SITUATION AND THE SHORTAGE OF MEDICINE AND FOOD, WE THINK IT IS NECESSARY FOR THE PEOPLE OF SAN MIGUEL TO OPEN THE STORES WHERE THEY CAN GET FOOD, MEDICINE, AND ANY OTHER ITEMS WHICH ARE URGENTLY NEEDED FOR THEIR [WORD INDISTINCT] AND SURVIVAL. THAT IS ALL FOR NOW. GREETINGS TO THE COMRADES WHO ARE LISTENING IN THE CAPITAL, ALL THE COMRADE FIGHTERS, AND THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE IN GENERAL. THEIR HIGH MORALE AND ACTIVE ROLE IN THE CAPITAL MAKES US FEEL PROUD. WE HAVE SEEN THAT THE VICTORY IS GUARANTEED. WE ARE PREPARED TO DO LIKEWISE AND WE SEND THEM THE COURAGEOUS, FRATERNAL, AND REVOLUTIONARY GREETINGS FROM ALL THE COMMANDERS AND FIGHTERS IN SAN MIGUEL.</p></body></html>