<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0075"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0075"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-07-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0075</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0075</p><p>BOGOTA, 28 JUL 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [REPORT] [MARIBEL OSORIO] [TEXT] A COLOMBIAN JUDGE HAS PAID THE HIGHEST PRICE FOR DOING HER DUTY. MARIA ELENA DIAZ PEREZ, THIRD JUDGE OF PUBLIC ORDER, AND TWO OF HER BODYGUARDS FROM THE DAS [ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY], WERE ASSASSINATED IN MEDELLIN TODAY BY A GROUP OF 10 PAID ASSASSINS IN TWO CARS, A MAZDA AND WHAT WAS THOUGHT TO BE A MERCURY.</p><p>SHE WAS TRAVELING HOME IN HER CAR TODAY AT NOON. ABOUT HALF A BLOCK FROM HER HOME, HER CAR, A TOYOTA WITH LICENSE PLATE NO. A-3037, WAS INTERCEPTED BY A WHITE MAZDA AND POSSIBLY A MERCURY. DIAZ' DRIVER HAD TO HIT THE BRAKES, AS THE MOTORCYCLE OF ONE OF HER BODYGUARDS SLAMMED INTO THE REAR OF HER CAR. IN A MATTER OF SECONDS, THE 10 PAID ASSASSINS OPENED FIRE ON THE JUDGE'S CAR. A TOTAL OF 55 9-MM SUBMACHINE GUN ROUNDS HIT THE LEFT SIDE OF THE CAR. THE JUDGE, WHO WAS SITTING IN THE BACK SEAT, WAS ABLE TO LEAVE THE CAR AND RUN, BUT SHE WAS ONLY ABLE TO TAKE A FEW STEPS BEFORE BEING GUNNED DOWN BY 19 BULLETS. TWO OF HER DAS BODYGUARDS, DAGOBERTO RODRIGUEZ AND ALFONSO DE LIMA, WHO WERE INSIDE THE CAR, WERE KILLED INSTANTLY.</p><p>NO ONE HAS BEEN ARRESTED YET IN CONNECTION WITH THIS INCIDENT. THE TRUTH IS THAT THE MANY THREATS MADE AGAINST HER BECAME A REALITY TODAY.</p><p>MARIA ELENA DIAZ, 34, WILL BE BURIED IN MEDELLIN TOMORROW.</p></body></html>