<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0038"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0038"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="MANAGUA (NICARAGUA)"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0038</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0038</p><p>MANAGUA (NICARAGUA), 26 AUG 89 (BARRICADA) -- [ARTICLE] [MARTHA MARINA GONZALEZ] [TEXT] TEOTECACINTE -- MORE THAN 400 COUNTERREVOLUTIONARIES HAVE DESERTED THE CAMPS IN YAMALES AND ARE ROAMING THE AREAS OF TROJES, CIFUENTES, JAMASTRAN, EL PARAISO, DANLI, SAN MARCOS, AND TEGUCIGALPA, DESPERATELY TRYING TO SLIP INTO THE REFUGEE GROUPS TO BE REPATRIATED -- HAD TIES WITH THE CONTRAS FOR 7 YEARS AND WAS FINALLY REPATRIATED ON WEDNESDAY 23 AUGUST.</p><p>AN INTERIOR MINISTRY SOURCE CONFIRMED TO BARRICADA THAT A CONTRA DESERTER PASSING HIMSELF OFF AS A REFUGEE ENTERED THE COUNTRY WITH A GROUP OF PEOPLE REPATRIATED BY THE ACNUR.</p><p>THE TELA AGREEMENTS HAVE CAUSED HAVOC NOT ONLY IN THE CONTRA RANKS, BUT ALSO IN THE REFUGEE CAMPS. THEIR DESPERATION TO RETURN TO NICARAGUA IS SUCH THAT MORE THAN 160 PERSONS TRIED TO ENTER THE COUNTRY ON 24 AUGUST THROUGH THE MURUPUCHI AND CERRO LA PIEDRA BORDER POSTS, BUT THE HONDURAN ARMY STOPPED THEM BECAUSE THEY LACKED THE NECESSARY DOCUMENTS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO JOSE TOMAS OSORIO, THE REFUGEES TRUST THE GUARANTEES OFFERED BY THE SANDINIST GOVERNMENT. THIS WAS ASCERTAINED BY SEVERAL JOURNALISTS AT THE CERRO LA PIEDRA BORDER POST. SEVERAL PERSONS QUICKLY GOT OUT OF A VEHICLE BUT THE HONDURAN TROOPS' PRESENCE FRUSTRATED THEIR PLAN.</p><p>THE RED CROSS' BRANCH IN JALAPA HAS INSTALLED A RECEPTION POST IN CERRO LA PIEDRA, BEHIND THE TROJES CEMETERY, TO AVOID TRAGEDIES LIKE THE ONE WHICH OCCURRED LAST WEEK, WHEN A YOUTH FELL INTO A MINED FIELD. THE NICARAGUANS WILL NOW BE ABLE TO CROSS THE BORDER, IF THE HONDURAN ARMY ALLOWS THEM, WITHOUT FACING ANY DANGER.</p><p>RED CROSS PRESIDENT DENIS GUZMAN, WHO IS ALSO PRESIDENT OF THE PEACE COMMISSION, SPOKE ON 25 AUGUST WITH THE PERSON COMMANDING THE HONDURAN BORDER POST. HE SAID THAT THE RED CROSS WAS WILLING TO ACCEPT ALL THOSE WHO WANT TO RETURN TO NICARAGUA. THE HONDURAN OFFICER SAID: "WE HAVE NO INFORMATION BUT, IF MY COMMANDER AUTHORIZES IT, WE WILL NOT OBJECT AND WILL LET THEM PASS. HOWEVER, WE CANNOT LET ANYONE CROSS THROUGH HERE FOR THE TIME BEING."</p><p>SEVERAL REPATRIATED PERSONS RETURNING ON 23 AUGUST THROUGH LAS MANOS CONFIRMED THE PROBLEMS OF THE REFUGEES AT THE CAMPS: "THERE IS NO FREEDOM TO WORK, THE FOOD IS RATIONED, THE PEOPLE ARE ALWAYS HUNGRY, AND WE LIVED LIKE ANIMALS IN A CORRAL," IT WAS STATED BY ERNESTINA UMANZOR, WHO WAS KIDNAPPED AT THE CIFUENTES BORDER REGION AND LATER WAS REPATRIATED.</p><p>REFERRING TO THE CONTRAS, THE NICARAGUANS LIVING IN HONDURAN TERRITORY SAID THAT THE FORMER "ARE OUTSIDE THE LAW; THEY HAVE NOTHING TO DO; THEY MUST PUT DOWN THEIR WEAPONS; THEY MUST BE DEMOBILIZED; THEY HAVE NO BUSINESS GOING TO THIRD COUNTRIES; THEY MUST RETURN TO THEIR HOMELAND," IT WAS ASSERTED BY DOMINGO OROZCO.</p><p>THE REPATRIATED PEOPLE WHO ARRIVED AT TEOTECACINTE WERE WELCOMED BY LOCAL PEOPLE, WHO WERE SATISFIED WITH THEIR RETURN AND SAID THEY WOULD SUPPORT THOSE WHO WISH TO TILL IDLE AND ABANDONED LANDS.</p></body></html>