<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0085"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0085"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0085</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0085</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 2 NOV 89 (RADIO CADENA SONORA) -- [INTERVIEW WITH FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT COMMANDER EDUARDO SANCHO, ALIAS FERMAN CIENFUEGOS, BY RENE ALVARENGAS] [EXCERPT] [PASSAGE OMITTED] [ALVARENGAS] COMMANDER FERMAN CIENFUEGOS, WHEN WILL THE DIALOGUE RESUME?</p><p>[SANCHO] WE BELIEVE THAT FOR THE DIALOGUE TO BE RESUMED THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES, MAINLY COLONELS PONCE AND ELENA, AND CRISTIANI MUST SPECIFICALLY ACCEPT THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES. WE BELIEVE THAT ONCE THIS SITUATION AND ALL THE POLITICAL ACTIONS FOR WHICH THEY ARE RESPONSIBLE HAVE BEEN CLARIFIED.... [CHANGES THOUGHT] THEY HAVE TO EXPLAIN THINGS VERY CLEARLY BECAUSE WE ARE REALLY TIRED OF HEARING THE FAMOUS PHRASE THAT THEY ALWAYS USE; THAT IS, THAT THEY ARE GOING TO INVESTIGATE. THAT IS NO LONGER POSSIBLE; THEREFORE, WE ARE DEMANDING THAT THE SITUATION BE CLARIFIED.</p><p>MEANWHILE, WE ARE GOING TO TALK TO THE OBSERVERS AND MEDIATORS TO CHECK ON HOW THE SITUATION IS DEVELOPING AND AT THE SAME TIME TO STUDY THE CONDITIONS FOR THE DIALOGUE - NEGOTIATION. I BELIEVE THAT THE NATURE OF THE SUSPENSION HAS BEEN WELL EXPLAINED. THESE CONDITIONS MUST BE MET BEFORE WE CAN, LET US SAY, RESUME THE MEETING. IT MUST BE MADE VERY CLEAR THAT THE AGREEMENT TO HOLD A DIALOGUE, THE CONTINUITY OF THE DIALOGUE, HAS NOT BEEN BROKEN. THIS WAS AGREED ON BY THE TWO PARTIES, AND THIS IS NOT WHAT WE ARE TALKING ABOUT. WHAT WE DID WAS SUSPEND THE MEETING THAT HAS CREATED SO MANY EXPECTATIONS. THE SAN JOSE AGREEMENT STATED THAT THERE WOULD BE A CEASE-FIRE AND A GRADUAL PROCESS TO PUT AN END TO HOSTILITIES THAT WOULD LEAD TO THE END OF THE WAR; HOWEVER, WE BELIEVE THAT IN ORDER FOR THIS TO BE DONE, WE MUST FIRST HAVE SPECIFIC DEMOCRATIC CONDITIONS. THAT IS WHAT CRISTIANI SIGNED IN TELA, HONDURAS. WHAT WE ARE SEEING HERE IS THE UNMASKING OF A FASCIST DICTATORSHIP. WE ARE SEEING A FASCIST AND TERRORIST CLIQUE. THE MEMBERS OF THE DEATH SQUADS ARE PRACTICALLY LEGAL IN EL SALVADOR. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p></body></html>