<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0084"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0084"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-09-13"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0084</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0084</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 13 SEP 89 (RADIO CADENA YSU) -- [STATEMENT] [JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS, COMMANDER OF THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, FMLN] [TEXT] WE BELIEVE WE HAVE MADE A GREAT EFFORT TO INCREASE THE POSSIBILITIES OF REACHING AN AGREEMENT. AS A RESULT, WE BELIEVE THIS MEETING AND OTHERS THAT MAY COME CAN BE DESCRIBED AS SERIOUS DIALOGUE AND NEGOTIATION. WE HAVE MADE AN EFFORT SO THAT THE DELEGATIONS CAN HOLD ENOUGH DECISION-MAKING POWER FOR AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. I SAID EARLIER THAT OUR PROPOSAL IS AIMED AT ACHIEVING THE COUNTRY'S REAL DEMOCRATIZATION. WE HAVE MADE AN EFFORT TO ACHIEVE THAT GOAL. WE ARE NOT ASKING THE GOVERNMENT TO GIVE UP THE LEGITIMACY IT SAYS IT HAS OBTAINED IN THE ELECTIONS. WE ARE ASKING THE GOVERNMENT TO SUBMIT IT TO A TEST FOR THE SAKE OF PEACE. IF IT PASSES THE TEST, THEN IT WOULD REAFFIRM ITS POWER. OTHERWISE, WE WERE ALWAYS RIGHT TO DEMAND A NEW CONSENSUS FOR ACHIEVING PEACE IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>ON PREVIOUS OCCASIONS THEY SAID THAT OUR PROPOSALS VIOLATED THE CONSTITUTION. WE HAVE MADE A GREAT EFFORT, IN SPITE OF THE FACT THAT WE DO NOT RECOGNIZE THE CONSTITUTION BECAUSE IT WAS MADE TO PROMOTE THE WAR. THE CONSTITUTION WAS DRAFTED BASED ON THE KILLING OF OVER 70,000 SALVADORANS. THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY DOES NOT REPRESENT A LARGE PART OF SALVADORAN SOCIETY, BUT WE HAVE MADE AN EFFORT SO THAT THERE ARE NO OBSTACLES TO REACHING AN AGREEMENT. WE HOPE A NEW CONSTITUTION FOR PEACE CAN BE DRAFTED.</p><p>THAT IS WHY WE ARE HERE, IN SPITE OF THE FACT THAT AT THE BEGINNING THE GOVERNMENT COMMISSION INSISTED ON PERFORMING CERTAIN TASKS WHICH WE THOUGHT SHOULD NOT HAVE BEEN CARRIED OUT. WE ARE CONCERNED ABOUT THE FACT THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS THE WRONG IDEA OF WHAT A DIALOGUE IS. WE BELIEVE THAT TO EXTEND THE DIALOGUE IN THE CURRENT CONTEXT, IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE EXISTING PRESSURE IN THE COUNTRY, IS TO EXTEND THE WAR. TO HOLD A DIALOGUE FULL OF DETAILS AND AGREEMENTS OF LITTLE IMPORTANCE IS TO EXTEND THE WAR.</p></body></html>