<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0078"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0078"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-15"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0078</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0078</p><p>BOGOTA, 15 NOV 89 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] MONTERIA -- BLOODY CLASHES HAVE BEEN TAKING PLACE IN THE RURAL AREA OF PUERTO LIBERTADOR MUNICIPALITY, SOUTH OF CORDOBA, SINCE 11 NOVEMBER. THE NUMBER OF GUERRILLAS KILLED BY 11TH BRIGADE TROOPS HAS RISEN TO 26.</p><p>ACCORDING TO REPORTS GIVEN JUST A FEW MINUTES AGO BY MILITARY SOURCES, THREE MORE MEMBERS OF THE SELF-STYLED POPULAR LIBERATION ARMY, EPL, WERE KILLED IN MUTATA, TRES PLAYITAS HAMLET, JUAN JOSE CORREGIMIENTO, IN THE CLASHES THAT TOOK PLACE ON 14 NOVEMBER. THIS BRINGS TO 21 THE NUMBER OF GUERRILLAS KILLED IN THIS AREA OF PUERTO LIBERTADOR MUNICIPALITY. IN ADDITION, FIVE MEMBERS OF THE FARC [REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA] WERE KILLED IN LA RICA, WHERE COMBAT BEGAN ON 11 NOVEMBER. IT WAS ALSO REPORTED THAT THE THE ARMY SUFFERED NO CASUALTIES. SOLDIER LUIS EDUARDO GONZALEZ ANAYA, WHO WAS WOUNDED IN COMBAT, HAS BEEN TAKEN TO THE BOGOTA MILITARY HOSPITAL. [SENTENCE AS HEARD]</p><p>IN THE MEANTIME, COLOMBIAN AIR FORCE PERSONNEL ARE REPAIRING THE HELICOPTER THAT MADE AN EMERGENCY LANDING IN THE AREA AFTER BEING DAMAGED, APPARENTLY BY THE REBELS. MILITARY OPERATIONS CONTINUE IN THE RURAL AREA OF PUERTO LIBERTADOR MUNICIPALITY LED AND COORDINATED BY 11TH BRIGADE COMMANDER COLONEL IVAN RAMIREZ QUINTERO.</p></body></html>