<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0047"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0047"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="QUITO"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0047</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0047</p><p>QUITO, 26 AUG 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] ECUADOR TODAY CONCEDED THE POSSIBILITY THAT THERE MAY BE COLOMBIAN DRUG TRAFFICKERS IN ECUADORAN TERRITORY, ALTHOUGH IT EMPHASIZED THAT BORDER CONTROLS HAVE BEEN REINFORCED "TO PREVENT THE SPREAD OF VIOLENCE AND TERROR."</p><p>ASKED ABOUT THE POSSIBLE PRESENCE OF MEMBERS OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL, INTERIOR MINISTER ANDRES VALLEJO SAID: "IT IS POSSIBLE. HOWEVER, THERE ARE QUITE RELIABLE REPORTS THAT THEY (THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS) HAVE MORE LIKELY FLED TO OTHER COUNTRIES."</p><p>THE MINISTER REVEALED THAT A FINANCING COMPANY, WHICH HE DID NOT IDENTIFY, WAS CLOSED BY THE GOVERNMENT BECAUSE IT WAS FOUND TO BE LAUNDERING DOLLARS OBTAINED FROM THE TRAFFICKING. "THERE WILL BE NO MERCY IN SUCH CASES," HE SAID.</p><p>OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS, PRESS REPORTS MENTIONED ECUADOR AS ONE OF THE COUNTRIES IN WHICH THE TOP LEADERS OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL HAD REPORTEDLY TAKEN REFUGE TO ESCAPE THE ACTIONS LAUNCHED BY THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT FOLLOWING A SERIES OF ASSASSINATIONS COMMITTED BY THE DRUG MAFIAS. EARLY THIS WEEK, ECUADOR REINFORCED ITS EXTENSIVE BORDER WITH COLOMBIA TO KEEP THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS OUT.</p><p>ASSESSING THE STATUS OF DRUGS IN ECUADOR, THE MINISTER ADMITTED THAT "SEVERAL LARGE ESTATES HAVE BEEN PURCHASED BY PEOPLE WHO APPEAR TO BE LINKED TO THE DRUG TRAFFIC." HOWEVER, HE EXPRESSED THE OPINION THAT THESE PURCHASES WERE LINKED TO MONEY LAUNDERING RATHER THAN THE PRODUCTION OF DRUGS.</p><p>VALLEJO ALSO SAID THAT ECUADOR HAS "SEVERELY" RESTRICTED IMPORTS OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES USED IN THE PRELIMINARY PHASES OF THE REFINING OF NARCOTICS. FORMER FREE ACCESS TO THOSE SUBSTANCES HAD BEEN CONVERTING THE COUNTRY INTO AN ALTERNATIVE BASE FOR THE PRODUCTION AND SHIPMENT OF DRUGS TO THE UNITED STATES AND WESTERN EUROPE.</p></body></html>