<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0003"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0003"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0003</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0003</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 4 APR 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] EL SALVADOR'S SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE HAS RELIEVED JUDGE HECTOR LARIOS OF HIS DUTIES AS JUDGE AND NOTARY BECAUSE HE ORDERED THE RELEASE OF A BAND OF ALLEGED KIDNAPPERS.</p><p>THE NEW JUDGE, RICARDO MEJIA, OVERTURNED THE RULING TO RELEASE THE EIGHT PEOPLE ACCUSED OF KIDAPPING AT LEAST SIX WEALTHY SALVADORANS IN THE EARLY 1980'S.</p><p>SUPREME COURT CHIEF JUSTICE FRANCISCO JOSE GUERRERO ANNOUNCED LARIOS' DISMISSAL AND SUSPENDED HIS LICENSE TO PRACTICE LAW. "BASED ON A REVIEW OF LARIOS' IRREGULAR RULING, ONE CAN CONCLUDE THAT HIS BEHAVIOR IS UNBECOMING AN OFFICIAL WORTHY OF THE SUPREME COURT'S TRUST. WE ARE DISMAYED BY THAT JUDGE'S CONDUCT," HE NOTED.</p><p>MOREOVER, MEJIA OVERTURNED THE RULING ORDERING THE RELEASE OF ORLANDO LLOVERA BALLET, LIEUTENANT ISIDRO LOPEZ, MAJOR ALFREDO JIMENEZ, AND OTHER MEMBERS OF THE KIDNAPPING RING.</p><p>LARIOS DECIDED ON FRIDAY TO RELEASE THE MEMBERS OF THE KIDNAPPING RING, WHICH INCLUDED SOME ARMY OFFICERS AND SYMPATHIZERS OF THE RIGHTIST NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA), WHICH WON THE 19 MARCH PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS.</p><p>"THIS IS THE FIRST TIME THE SUPREME COURT HAS LEVIED THIS KIND OF SANCTION IN A CASE SETTING A PRECEDENT IN JUDICIAL CORRUPTION," A COURT OFFICIAL ASSERTED, REFERRING TO LARIOS' DISMISSAL. LARIOS IS ALSO ACCUSED OF RELEASING MEMBERS OF A DRUG TRAFFICKING RING SOME YEARS AGO.</p><p>BECAUSE THE RULING ON THE KIDNAPPERS WAS OVERTURNED, "THE CASE GOES BACK TO THE LOWER COURTS," THE NEW JUDGE SAID.</p><p>THE KIDNAPPERS, SOME OF WHOM HAVE BEEN UNDER ARREST SINCE APRIL 1986, WERE ACCUSED OF KIDNAPPING SEVERAL BUSINESSMEN FOR HIGH SUMS OF MONEY.</p><p>LARIOS'S RULING IN FAVOR OF THE KIDNAPPERS PROMPTED A BITTER REACTION FROM GOVERNMENT, POLITICAL, AND PROFESSIONAL SECTORS. THE NATIONAL AD COUNCIL, REPRESENTING NEWS MEDIA ANNOUNCERS, HAS URGED THAT THE KIDNAPPERS BE PROSECUTED TO THE FULL EXTENT OF THE LAW "SO THAT THOSE WHO PROFIT FROM THE SUFFERING OF OTHERS ARE PUNISHED."</p></body></html>