<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0083"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0083"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-04-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0083</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0083</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 26 APR 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] A SALVADORAN COURT YESTERDAY PRESENTED A SWORN DECLARATION BY PRESIDENT JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE IN WHICH HE LINKS RIGHTIST LEADER ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON TO THE MARCH 1980 ASSASSINATION OF ARCHBISHOP OSCAR ARNULFO ROMERO.</p><p>THE DECLARATION, WHICH THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE REQUESTED FROM THE FOURTH PENAL COURT, DID NOT PROVIDE DETAILS REGARDING EVIDENCE THAT COULD BE USED TO SOLVE THE CASE OF MONSIGNOR ROMERO, WHO WAS A STAUNCH CRITIC OF THE GOVERNMENT BECAUSE OF ITS ALLEGED HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS.</p><p>THE DOCUMENT CONTAINS A LIST OF THE NAMES OF 12 ARMY OFFICERS AND 12 CIVILIANS WHO WERE ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED IN PLOTTING TO OUST THE REVOLUTIONARY GOVERNMENT JUNTA THAT TOOK OVER IN OCTOBER 1979 AFTER OVERTHROWING GENERAL HUMBERTO ROMERO.</p><p>THE LIST OF PLOTTERS INCLUDES RIGHTIST DEPUTY D'AUBUISSON, FOUNDER OF THE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE (ARENA) -- THE WINNER IN THE RECENT ELECTIONS -- AND CAPTAIN ALVARO SARAVIA, WHOM THE PRESIDENT ACCUSED OF BEING THE MASTERMINDS OF THE ASSASSINATION OF THE CLERGYMAN.</p><p>THE LIST ALSO INCLUDES THE NAMES OF CIVILIANS INVOLVED IN THE KIDNAPPING OF SEVERAL SALVADORAN BUSINESSMEN EARLY IN THE DECADE.</p><p>ACCORDING TO DUARTE'S DECLARATION, 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE SOLDIERS ARRESTED THE 24 COUP PLOTTERS IN 1980, AND SEVERAL DOCUMENTS WERE SEIZED FROM THEM, INCLUDING A NOTEBOOK WITH PLANS FOR KILLING ROMERO.</p><p>THE U.S. SENATE HAS A NOTEBOOK OWNED BY CAPT SARAVIA, AND SALVADORAN JUDICIAL AUTHORITIES ARE INVESTIGATING HOW THE U.S. SENATE ENDED UP WITH IT.</p><p>ACCORDING TO DUARTE, "COLONEL ADOLFO ARNULFO MAJANO, A MEMBER OF THE REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA THAT OUSTED GEN ROMERO, HAD THE DOCUMENTS."</p><p>THE SALVADORAN SUPREME COURT RECENTLY REVOKED A SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT EXTRADITION REQUEST FOR SARAVIA, WHOM THE GOVERNMENT WANTED TO QUESTION TO HELP SOLVE THE ROMERO CASE.</p><p>THE ARCHBISHOP WAS KILLED BY A SNIPER WHILE SAYING MASS AT A HOSPITAL FOR CANCER PATIENTS.</p></body></html>