<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0034"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0034"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0034</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0034</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 23 NOV 89 (ACAN - EFE) -- [TEXT] TODAY SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI REJECTED A REBEL PROPOSAL TO IMMEDIATELY NEGOTIATE A CEASE-FIRE WITH THE ARMY UNDER OAS AND UNITED NATIONS SUPERVISION; HOWEVER, HE DID EXPRESS HIS INTENTION TO SEEK A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE ARMED CONFLICT IN THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE SALVADORAN AIR FORCE ATTACKED THE OUTSKIRTS OF SAN SALVADOR WITH MACHINEGUN FIRE AND ROCKETS JUST AS PRESIDENT CRISTIANI REJECTED THE DIALOGUE PROPOSAL MADE BY THE GUERRILLAS ON 22 NOVEMBER.</p><p>FOUR "PUSH AND PULL" PLANES AND TWO HELICOPTER GUNSHIPS OPENED FIRE ON ALLEGED FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] COLUMNS IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>"THEIR PROPOSAL IS NOT SERIOUS, (THE REBELS) ARE ONCE AGAIN SAYING THAT THERE ARE TWO ARMED FORCES. IN EL SALVADOR THERE IS ONLY ONE ARMED FORCE," CRISTIANI SAID. HE ADDED THAT A POLITICAL SOLUTION ENTAILS THAT THE GUERRILLAS END THE VIOLENCE.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT, ACCOMPANIED BY COLONEL RENE EMILIO PONCE, CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE ARMED FORCES, SAID IN A NEWS CONFERENCE THAT THE FMLN PROPOSAL "IS NOT VERY SERIOUS" BECAUSE "IT IS NOT AIMED AT THE GOVERNMENT BUT AT THE ARMY, WHICH IS PART OF THE GOVERNMENT," HE SAID.</p><p>ACCORDING TO CRISTIANI, THE NEW FMLN PROPOSAL IS "PROPAGANDIST" AND IS ONLY MEANT TO GAIN SOME TIME IN VIEW OF THE "MILITARY DEFEAT SUFFERED IN THE LAST FEW DAYS."</p><p>CRISTIANI SAID THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS WILLING TO SEEK A RATIONAL SOLUTION TO THE MILITARY CONFLICT IN THIS COUNTRY, BUT HE CATEGORICALLY EMPHASIZED THAT THIS MEANS THAT THE GUERRILLAS MUST LAY DOWN THEIR WEAPONS AND JOIN THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS.</p><p>"WE WILL NOT ALLOW THE GUERRILLAS TO REGROUP AND BEGIN ATTACKING AGAIN. IF THEY WANT TO HOLD A DIALOGUE, THEY SHOULD LAY DOWN THEIR WEAPONS AND PEACEFULLY JOIN THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS," CRISTIANI SAID.</p><p>THE PRESIDENT WARNED THAT "THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMED FORCES ARE WILLING TO FIGHT MILITARILY. IT ALL DEPENDS ON WHETHER THE FMLN CONTINUES TO BEHAVE THIS WAY, NOT LISTENING TO REASON, AND NOT ENDING THIS MADNESS," THE RIGHTIST PRESIDENT SAID.</p><p>THE NEWS CONFERENCE, HELD WITH SOME 50 JOURNALISTS, WAS ABRUPTLY INTERRUPTED BY THE HEAVY BOMBINGS CARRIED OUT BY THE SALVADORAN AIR FORCE AGAINST ALLEGED GUERRILLA COLUMNS.</p><p>FOLLOWING THE FIRST BOMBINGS, WHICH ROCKED THE MILITARY OFFICES WHERE THE NEWS CONFERENCE WAS BEING HELD, CRISTIANI AND PONCE RESUMED CONTROL OF THE CONFERENCE AND EXPLAINED THAT THE ATTACK WAS THE RESULT OF AN OPERATION IN PURSUIT OF THE "GUERRILLAS FLEEING IN DISARRAY."</p><p>THE AIR FORCE BOMBING BEGAN SHORTLY BEFORE THE CURFEW, WHICH BEGAN AT 1800 (0000 GMT) UNTIL 0600 IN THE MORNING (1200 GMT), JUST WHEN THOUSANDS OF SALVADORANS WERE RETURNING HOME.</p><p>THE HEAVY EXPLOSIONS CAUSED ALARM AMONG THE POPULATION IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR AND IT IS UNKNOWN WHETHER CIVILIANS HAVE BEEN HURT.</p><p>ACCORDING TO CRISTIANI, THE GUERRILLA OFFENSIVE "HAS BEEN A FAILURE" NOT ONLY MILITARILY, BUT POLITICALLY AS WELL BECAUSE THEY WERE UNABLE TO INCITE THE PEOPLE TO REBELLION, AS THEY PLANNED.</p><p>THE PROPOSAL SIGNED BY THE TOP FIVE FMLN COMMANDERS AND READ ON THE OFFICIAL REBEL STATION, CLANDESTINE RADIO VENCEREMOS, HAS BEEN RELEASED IN THE FRAMEWORK OF A REBEL MILITARY OFFENSIVE, WHICH BEGAN 12 DAYS AGO AND WHICH HAS LEFT MORE THAN 1,000 PEOPLE DEAD, HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE WOUNDED, AND TENS OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE HOMELESS.</p></body></html>