<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0097"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0097"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-02-06"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0097</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0097</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 6 FEB 89 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] THE HONDURAN POLICE TODAY PRESENTED TO REPORTERS TWO OF THE PRESUMED KILLERS OF CONTRA COMMANDER MANUEL RUGAMA ACEVEDO, ALIAS "AURELIANO." ONE OF THE MEN ACCUSED AN OFFICIAL OF THE NICARAGUAN EMBASSY IN TEGUCIGALPA OF INVOLVEMENT IN THE CRIME.</p><p>"AURELIANO," CONSIDERED TO BE THE SECOND IN COMMAND OF THE NICARAGUAN CONTRAS, WAS GUNNED DOWN BY AN UNIDENTIFIED GROUP IN TEGUCIGALPA'S NORTHERN OUTSKIRTS ON 7 JANUARY AFTER ATTENDING A WORKING MEETING WITH OTHER REBEL LEADERS.</p><p>THE POLICE DETAINED HONDURANS JUAN BAUTISTA AND RIGOBERTO MATUTE AND NICARAGUAN LUIS ORDONEZ, WHO ARE BEING HELD AS SUSPECTS IN AURELIANO'S MURDER. OTHER SUSPECTS ARE STILL BEING PURSUED.</p><p>ONLY BAUTISTA AND ORDONEZ WERE PRESENTED TO REPORTERS. MATUTE IS BEING HELD OUTSIDE TEGUCIGALPA AS A WITNESS IN THE CASE.</p><p>ORDONEZ SAID HE "PARTICIPATED ONLY AS A GO-BETWEEN" SO JOSE DE JESUS PENA, THE NICARAGUAN EMBASSY OFFICIAL, COULD MEET MATUTE, WHO WORKED AS A MESSENGER FOR ORDONEZ AT THE EXCHANGE OFFICE HE RUNS IN TEGUCIGALPA.</p><p>ORDONEZ ADDED: "I WAS AWARE THAT PENA WANTED TO GET RID OF SOMEBODY, BUT I NEVER LEARNED WHO THEY WERE GOING TO KILL UNTIL 'AURELIANO' WAS ELIMINATED."</p><p>ORDONEZ ALSO SAID HE WORKED FOR THE SOMOZA REGIME, THAT HE LATER AIDED THE CONTRAS FINANCIALLY IN HONDURAS, PARTICULARLY THE REBEL INDIAN ORGANIZATION MISURASATA [MISKITO, SUMU, AND RAMA SANDINIST UNITY], AND THAT WIDCLIFE DIEGO, A MISURASATA LEADER, OWES HIM $25,000.</p><p>ORDONEZ SAID FURTHER THAT HE PROVIDED INFORMATION ON THE CONTRAS SEVERAL TIMES TO THE NICARAGUAN EMBASSY THROUGH PENA, WHO GAVE HIM $1,000 ALMOST EVERY MONTH.</p><p>ORDONEZ DENIED THAT HE PARTICIPATED DIRECTLY IN THE CRIME: "ON SATURDAY, 7 JANUARY, WHEN 'AURELIANO' WAS KILLED, I WAS AT A COCK FIGHT IN EL PROGRESO" ON HONDURAS' NORTHERN COAST.</p><p>ORDONEZ SAID: "I ALSO WAS IN TOUCH WITH THE HONDURAN SECRET POLICE, ONE OF WHOSE LIEUTENANTS, WORKING FOR INTERPOL, CALLED ME UP A FEW DAYS AGO. HE TOLD ME LATER, HOWEVER, THAT OTHER OFFICERS WANTED TO SEE ME. THAT IS HOW I WAS DETAINED."</p><p>IN ADDITION, BAUTISTA CLAIMED THAT HE WAS HIRED BY MATUTE DURING TWO MEETINGS THEY HELD AND THAT MATUTE OFFERED TO PAY HIM $10,000 TO KILL SOMEBODY, PRESUMABLY A CONTRA COMMANDER WHO ALSO INTENDED TO KILL MATUTE.</p><p>BAUTISTA SAID THAT A FEW DAYS PRIOR TO THE CRIME, MATUTE INTRODUCED TO HIM ANOTHER PERSON, CANO ARTEAGA, WHO IS STILL AT LARGE AND WHO TOLD BAUTISTA THAT IT WAS ORDONEZ WHO WANTED THE MAN DEAD.</p><p>BAUTISTA SAID THAT, ON THE DAY OF THE CRIME, HE MET WITH MATUTE AND CANO. THEY DROVE AROUND THE PLACE SEVERAL TIMES UNTIL THEY INTERCEPTED THE CONTRA COMMANDER'S CAR.</p><p>"I OPENED FIRE WITH A .38 CALIBER REVOLVER. AURELIANO GOT OUT OF THE CAR AND WAS HIT BY MATUTE'S SHOTS. CANO FINISHED HIM OFF."</p><p>BAUTISTA SAID HIS TWO COMPANIONS WERE ARMED WITH .45 CALIBER PISTOLS. AFTER THE CRIME, THEY WENT THEIR SEPARATE WAYS TO WAIT TO RECEIVE THE PROMISED MONEY IN A TEGUCIGALPA PARK ON 15 FEBRUARY.</p><p>POLICE SOURCES AND COLONEL MANUEL ENRIQUE SUAREZ, HEAD OF THE HONDURAN ARMED FORCES' PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT, WHO PRESENTED THE CRIMINALS TO THE REPORTERS, DECLINED TO COMMENT ON THE INVOLVEMENT OF A NICARAGUAN EMBASSY OFFICIAL IN THE CRIME.</p><p>SUAREZ SAID: "IT IS UP TO THE HONDURAN GOVERNMENT TO COMMENT ON THIS CASE OR TO TRY TO ESTABLISH WHETHER A DIPLOMAT PARTICIPATED. THE POLICE HAVE ALREADY DONE THEIR DUTY."</p><p>THERE WAS NOBODY AVAILABLE AT THE NICARAGUAN EMBASSY IN TEGUCIGALPA TO COMMENT ON THE ALLEDGED INVOLVEMENT OF ONE OF THE EMBASSY OFFICIALS IN THE ASSASSINATION. THE EMBASSY WOULD NEITHER CONFIRM NOR DENY THAT SOMEONE NAMED JOSE DE JESUS PENA WORKED THERE.</p></body></html>