<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0024"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0024"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-08"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0024</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0024</p><p>BOGOTA, 8 DEC 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] THE CAR BOMB ATTACK ON 6 DECEMBER WHICH DESTROYED THE BUILDING THAT HOUSES THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY (DAS, SECRET POLICE) HAD BEEN PLANNED SINCE LAST SEPTEMBER, ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL DISCLOSURES.</p><p>A POLICE SPOKESPERSON CONFIRMED TODAY THAT THE BUS USED IN THE TERRORIST ACTION WAS BOUGHT BY A MAN WHO IS A NATIVE OF MEDELLIN. HE USED FALSE DOCUMENTS TO BUY THE CAR FROM A SCHOOL PROPRIETOR IN BOGOTA.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE AUTHORITIES, THE BUYER, WHO IS A MEMBER OF THE SINISTER MEDELLIN CARTEL, WAS INSTRUCTED BY TERRORISTS ABROAD TO EXPLODE 500 KG OF DYNAMITE GEL IN FRONT OF THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE COUNTRY'S PRINCIPAL SECURITY ORGANIZATION.</p><p>DAS DIRECTOR BRIGADIER GENERAL MIGUEL MAZA MARQUEZ SAID ON 7 DECEMBER THAT A MEMBER OF THE SEPARATIST ETA [BASQUE FATHERLAND AND LIBERTY] GROUP DIRECTED THE OPERATION.</p><p>MAZA MARQUEZ ALSO SAID THAT PABLO ESCOBAR GAVIRIA AND GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA, THE WORLD'S BIGGEST DRUG TRAFFICKERS, "ARE BEHIND THIS CRIMINAL ATTACK."</p><p>"THE MEDELLIN CARTEL PLANNED THE ATTACK SINCE SEPTEMBER, AFTER ANOTHER CAR BOMB ATTEMPT TO ASSASSINATE MAZA MARQUEZ WAS FOILED LAST MAY," THE POLICE SPOKESPERSON STATED.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THREE PERSONS SUSPECTED OF PARTICIPATING IN THE ATTACK WERE RELEASED ON 7 DECEMBER, AFTER BEING FOUND INNOCENT. TWO OTHER PERSONS ARE BEING HELD BY THE POLICE AND ARE UNDERGOING INTENSE QUESTIONING.</p><p>THE AUTHORITIES ALSO CONFIRMED THAT THE NUMBER OF VICTIMS IS 59 AND NOT 62, AS WAS REPORTED OFFICIALLY ON 7 DECEMBER.</p><p>CIVIL DEFENSE AND RED CROSS CREWS, AS WELL AS ARMED FORCES UNITS, ARE REMOVING THE RUBBLE FROM A 2-KM-PERIMETER, FEARING THAT PEOPLE MAY BE PERSONS TRAPPED BENEATH TONS OF IRON AND CEMENT.</p></body></html>