<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0035"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0035"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-05-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0035</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0035</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 26 MAY 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION. RADIO VENCEREMOS WILL NOW GIVE A PRELIMINARY BULLETIN ON VARIOUS ACTIONS THAT TOOK PLACE THURSDAY NIGHT IN SAN SALVADOR. EVERYONE AGAINST ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] -- WE WILL WIN!</p><p>THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] REPORTS THAT URBAN COMMANDO UNITS STAGED SIMULTANEOUS ATTACKS ON THE 1ST INFANTRY BRIGADE HEADQUARTERS AND THE NATIONAL POLICE HEADQUARTERS AT 1830 ON THURSDAY, 25 MAY, IN THE ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD. FURTHERMORE, ARMED UNITS DISTRIBUTED PROPAGANDA IN NEARBY AREAS. OUR UNITS ALSO SABOTAGED THE ELECTRICAL SYSTEM. WE REPORT THAT ARMED FORCES TROOPS REACTED BY SHOOTING INDISCRIMINATELY, SURROUNDING THE AREAS OF THE ATTACKS, AND CONDUCTING SEARCHES AND ARRESTS. THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY HAS BEEN SURROUNDED. TROOPS HAVE ENTERED THE UNIVERSITY AND OPENED FIRE INDISCRIMINATELY INSIDE UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS. IN FACE OF THE TERRORISM WAGED BY ARENA AND THE ARMED FORCES, EVERYONE SHOULD PREPARE TO FIGHT. EVERYONE AGAINST ARENA -- WE WILL WIN!</p></body></html>