<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0056"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0056"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0056</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0056</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 2 MAY 90 (ACAN-EFE) -- [TEXT] AT LEAST 18 CASUALTIES, AMONG BOTH SOLDIERS AND CIVILIANS, RESULTED FROM SEVERAL GUERRILLA ATTACKS ON THE PRESIDENT'S RESIDENCE, THE CENTRAL ELECTORAL COUNCIL, AND OTHER MILITARY INSTALLATIONS IN SAN SALVADOR AND SEVERAL DEPARTMENTS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.</p><p>THE ARMED FORCES PRESS COMMITTEE (COPREFA) REPORTED THAT FOUR ARMY MEMBERS, INCLUDING TWO OFFICERS, WERE KILLED AND SIX SOLDIERS WERE WOUNDED IN CLASHES IN THE ESCALON NEIGHBORHOOD IN NORTHERN SAN SALVADOR.</p><p>THE TWO DEAD OFFICERS WERE IDENTIFIED AS CAPTAIN JOSE ALFONSO CHAVEZ AND LIEUTENANT BOLANOS OF THE TREASURY POLICE.</p><p>A TREASURY POLICE MEMBER WAS KILLED IN A REBEL ATTACK IN SAN MIGUEL, THE COUNTRY'S THIRD LARGEST CITY, EARLY THIS MORNING.</p><p>THE ATTACKS BEGAN AT 2100 (0300 GMT) ON 1 MAY AND CONTINUED AFTER MIDNIGHT, ALARMING CITIZENS IN SAN SALVADOR AND CAUSING BLACKOUTS.</p><p>FURTHERMORE, THE SALVADORAN RED CROSS REPORTED THAT EIGHT MINORS WERE WOUNDED IN TWO CLASHES BETWEEN GUERRILLA FORCES AND SOLDIERS IN ILOBASCO, CABANAS DEPARTMENT, AND USULUTAN, LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST AREA OF THE COUNTRY.</p><p>MILITARY SPOKESMEN SAID THAT THE GUERRILLA FORCES ATTACKED THE PRESIDENTIAL RESIDENCE, THE SHERATON HOTEL'S SECURITY CORPS, PUBLIC WORKS MINISTER MAURICIO STUBIG'S RESIDENCE, AND THE CENTRAL ELECTORAL COUNCIL.</p><p>THE COPREFA REPORTED THAT THERE WAS PROPERTY DAMAGE BUT NO CASUALTIES IN THESE PLACES.</p><p>MILITARY REPORTS ADDED THAT A CIVIL DEFENSE MEMBER WAS WOUNDED IN A REBEL HARASSMENT OF THE CIVIL DEFENSE GROUP IN THE TOWN OF YUCUAYQUIN, EASTERN MORAZAN DEPARTMENT.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE MILITARY SOURCES, THE TOWNS OF JOCORO AND GUADALUPE WERE ALSO ATTACKED BY THE REBELS, BUT THERE WERE NO CASUALTIES REPORTED IN THESE ATTACKS.</p></body></html>