<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0017"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0017"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-12"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0017</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0017</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 12 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMUNIQUE] [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, FMLN, GENERAL COMMAND] [TEXT] THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND REPORTS:</p><p>1. ON SATURDAY 11 NOVEMBER WE BEGAN THE NATIONAL MILITARY CAMPAIGN CALLED " OUT WITH THE FASCISTS! FEBE ELIZABETH LIVES!" THIS CAMPAIGN IMMERSED THE ARMED FORCES HIGH COMMAND AND THE CRISTIANI ADMINISTRATION IN CONFUSION AND INSECURITY SINCE THE BEGINNING; AND IT SUCCESSFULLY CONTINUES IN ITS SECOND DAY OF FIGHTING.</p><p>2. THE FMLN FIGHTERS ARE USING ALL THEIR INTELLIGENCE, ENERGY, UNSELFISHNESS, AND PATRIOTISM SO THAT A JUST PEACE IS ACHIEVED IN THE COUNTRY BASED ON AN AUTHENTIC DEMOCRACY DESIGNED TO COUNTER THE GENOCIDAL REPLY THAT THE MILITARY DICTATORSHIP HAS RESPONDED WITH.</p><p>3. SALVADORANS WHO HAVE WITHSTOOD A BLOODY MILITARY DICTATORSHIP FOR ALMOST 60 YEARS SEE MORE CLEARLY TODAY THE NEED TO DEVELOP THEIR LEGITIMATE DEFENSE AGAINST THE REPRESSION WHICH HAS BEEN STEPPED UP BY THE POLITICAL, ECONOMIC, AND MILITARY HOSTILITY OF ALFREDO CRISTIANI'S ADMINISTRATION; AND THEY UNDERSTAND THE NEED TO SUPPORT AND JOIN THE STRUGGLE FOR OUR COUNTRY'S LIBERTY.</p><p>4. WE URGE THE HONEST AND PATRIOTIC MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES TO SERIOUSLY REFLECT ON THE FACT THAT THEY ARE NOT ONLY FACING THE GUERRILLA ARMY OF THE FMLN, BUT A WHOLE SECTOR WHICH CLAIMS ITS RIGHT TO REBEL. WE SPECIFICALLY URGE THE SOLDIERS AND OFFICERS IN THE BATTLEFIELD TO UNDERSTAND THAT OUR STRUGGLE IS NOT BEING PERSONALLY WAGED AGAINST YOU, BUT RATHER AGAINST THE ANTIPOPULAR INTERESTS WHICH ARE BEING DEFENDED BY THE ARMED FORCES UPON ORDERS FROM THE FASCISTS.</p><p>5. THE GOVERNMENTS AND PEOPLES OF THE WORLD ARE CLOSELY FOLLOWING THE LATEST EVENTS IN EL SALVADOR AND THEIR CONTRIBUTION WILL BE VALUABLE IN ACHIEVING A NATIONAL CONSENSUS BASED ON DEMOCRACY, A SOLUTION AMONG SALVADORANS, AND NO FOREIGN INTERVENTION. THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY MUST HELP ACHIEVE A JUST AND DURABLE PEACE, THUS AVOIDING MORE BLOODSHED.</p><p>6. THE FMLN GENERAL COMMAND WANTS TO REPORT THE ATROCITIES BEING PERPETRATED AGAINST THE CIVILIAN POPULATION BY THE ARMED FORCES WHO ARE INDISCRIMINATELY BOMBING DENSELY POPULATED AREAS IN SAN SALVADOR, AND ISSUING DEATH THREATS AGAINST ALL THE POLITICAL AND SOCIAL GROUPS, THUS PROVING THE REGIME'S WEAKNESS AND SHOWING ITS ANTIPOPULAR AND ANTIPATRIOTIC ESSENCE.</p><p>7. WE ALSO URGE THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TO HELP CREATE SPECIAL ZONES WHERE CHILDREN, THE ELDERLY, AND WOUNDED PEOPLE FROM THE BATTLE ZONES CAN BE EVACUATED.</p><p>OUT WITH THE FASCISTS! FEBE ELIZABETH LIVES!</p><p>FMLN GENERAL COMMAND</p><p>COMMANDERS SALVADOR SANCHEZ CEREN, COMMANDER FRANCISCO JOVEL, COMMANDER JOAQUIN VILLALOBOS, COMMANDER SHAFIK JORGE HANDAL, COMMANDER EDUARDO SANCHO.</p><p>EL SALVADOR, 12 NOVEMBER 1989.</p></body></html>