<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0061"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0061"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-25"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0061</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0061</p><p>BOGOTA, 25 OCT 89 (AFP) -- [TEXT] GONZALO RODRIGUEZ GACHA ALIAS "THE MEXICAN," A WELL-KNOWN COLOMBIAN DRUG TRAFFICKER WHO IS ONE OF THE DRUG LORDS OF THE MEDELLIN CARTEL HAS ADMITTED THAT HE IS IN FAVOR OF "CEASING OFFENSIVE ACTIONS AGAINST THE MILITARY FORCES."</p><p>IN A LETTER TO THE OPPOSITION'S DAILY LA PRENSA EDITED IN BOGOTA, HE STRESSED THAT "THE MISSION EACH ONE OF US HAS AS COLOMBIAN CITIZENS IS TRYING TO RESTORE PEACE IN COLOMBIA."</p><p>RODRIGUEZ GACHA, WHO ALONG WITH PABLO ESCOBAR HAVE BECOME THE COUNTRY'S MOST WANTED MEN, DENIED HAVING PROPOSED AN ALLIANCE WITH THE COMMUNIST GUERRILLAS OF THE REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (FARC).</p><p>ONLY 1 WEEK AGO, LA PRENSA REPORTED THAT RODRIGUEZ GACHA HAD PROPOSED AN ALLIANCE WITH THE FARC IN ORDER TO FACE THE WAR AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING DECLARED BY LIBERAL PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO IN MID-AUGUST.</p><p>"THE TRUTH IS THAT THERE IS NO SUCH LETTER," SAID THE "CAPO" FOR WHOSE HEAD -- ALONG WITH PABLO ESCOBAR -- COLOMBIAN AUTHORITIES HAVE OFFERED A REWARD OF 100 MILLION PESOS (APPROXIMATELY $250,000).</p><p>RODRIGUEZ GACHA ALSO RECALLED HIS STRUGGLE AGAINST THE FARC.</p><p>TAKING ADVANTAGE OF THE OCCASION, THE DRUG TRAFFICKER REJECTED ALL INFORMATION THAT STATING THAT HE IS THE "ACKNOWLEDGED PERPETRATOR OF ALL CRIMES AGAINST PATRIOTIC UNION LEADERS (UP)." HE ADDED THAT ALTHOUGH HE WAS CHARGED WITH THE MURDER OF JAIME PARDO LEAL "THE COURT'S VERDICT WAS FAVORABLE TO ME."</p><p>PARDO LEAL WAS THE FOUNDER AND FIRST PRESIDENT OF UP. UP WAS FORMED IN 1984, DURING A TRUCE SIGNED BETWEEN FARC AND THE THEN SOCIAL CONSERVATIVE PRESIDENT BELISARIO BETANCUR. ACCORDING TO GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, PARDO LEAL WAS MURDERED BY TWO PAID ASSASSINS WHO RECEIVED ORDERS FROM "EL MEXICANO" ON 11 OCTOBER 1987.</p><p>RODRIGUEZ GACHA ARGUED: "NOBODY HAS BEEN CHASED WITH SUCH FIERCENESS IN COLOMBIA BEFORE AS I HAVE." HE ADDED: "IT SEEMS THAT ALL THE ARTICLES OF THE PENAL CODE HAVE BEEN THROWN AT ME AND MY DETRACTORS ARE NOT BINDED BY ANY OF THESE NORMS."</p><p>AFTER HE INSISTED THAT OFFENSIVES AGAINST THE COLOMBIAN ARMED FORCES SHOULD STOP, RODRIGUEZ GACHA NOTED THAT THOSE WHO DISTURB PUBLIC ORDER "SHOULD DEFINITELY STOP USING WEAPONS."</p><p>"THESE ARE THE FIRST STEPS THAT ARE NEEDED TO GET COLOMBIANS TO SIT AT A NEGOTIATING TABLE WITHOUT EXCLUDING ANYONE," HE CONCLUDED.</p><p>VIRGILIO BARCO'S GOVERNMENT HAS REJECTED ALL POSSIBILITY OF DIALOGUE WITH THE DRUG MAFIAS.</p></body></html>