<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0042"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0042"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="TEGUCIGALPA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0042</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0042</p><p>TEGUCIGALPA, 20 DEC 89 (VOZ DE HONDURAS NETWORK) -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] FOLLOWING THE U.S. INVASION OF GRENADA ISLAND, THE WORLD DISCARDED ANY FURTHER POSSIBILITY OF A U.S. ARMED OPERATION AGAINST ANOTHER NATION OF THE AMERICAN CONTINENT, DESPITE THE DETERIORATION OF ITS RELATIONS WITH OTHER GOVERNMENTS AND PROVOCATIONS AGAINST THE U.S. GOVERNMENT. IT WAS BELIEVED THAT THE U.S. WOULD CONFINE ITS PARTICIPATION TO SUPPORTING AND SPONSORING MOVEMENTS AIMED AT OUSTING GOVERNMENTS OR, AS IN THE CASE OF NICARAGUA, OF SUPPORTING REBEL FORCES TO ACHIEVE THE GOALS SET BY THE WHITE HOUSE.</p><p>THE EVENTS THAT OCCURRED EARLY THIS MORNING IN PANAMA HAVE SURPRISED THE WORLD BECAUSE, DESPITE GENERAL MANUEL ANTONIO NORIEGA'S CHALLENGING ATTITUDE, NO ONE THOUGHT THE U.S. WOULD INVADE PANAMA. NORIEGA WAS CERTAIN THE U.S. GOVERNMENT WOULD NOT DO SO, AND SUPPOSED THAT U.S. ATTITUDES AGAINST HIM WOULD CONSIST OF SPONSORING REBELLION, SUCH AS THE RECENT 3-OCTOBER ATTEMPT, WHEN THE U.S. GOVERNMENT ENCOURAGED MEMBERS OF THE PANAMANIAN DEFENSE FORCES TO REBEL AGAINST THEIR COMMANDER IN CHIEF. NORIEGA NEVER THOUGHT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT WOULD EVER CONDUCT A MILITARY OPERATION AGAINST PANAMA, ALTHOUGH THERE WERE U.S. TROOPS BASED ON THE CANAL ZONE. HE CONTINUED UNDER THIS IMPRESSION BECAUSE NEVER BEFORE HAD THESE TROOPS CHANGED FROM THEIR ROLE OF SURVEILLANCE, NOT EVEN WHEN WASHINGTON PROMOTED THE REBELLION OF SOME YOUNG OFFICERS OF THE PANAMANIAN FORCES.</p><p>THIS EXCESSIVE SECURITY DISTRACTED NORIEGA AND ENCOURAGED HIM TO CHALLENGE THE U.S. POLICIES. NORIEGA DID NOT BELIEVE THE U.S. THREATS AND HE ADOPTED AN OMNIPOTENT STANCE, LIKE HIS RECENT DECISION TO APPOINT HIMSELF THE SUPREME LEADER OF PANAMA. NORIEGA BELIEVED THAT THE UNITED STATES WOULD CONTINUE TO SUPPORT SUBVERSION IN HIS COUNTRY, AND THAT THE U.S. DECISION TO SUPPORT THE OPPOSITION CURRENTLY IN EXILE WOULD PRODUCE MOVEMENTS AGAINST HIS REGIME, OR THAT A COMMANDO MIGHT ATTEMPT TO KIDNAP HIM. AS A RESULT OF THIS BELIEF, HE INCREASED THE STRENGTH OF THE MILITARY FORCES AND EQUIPPED MANY CIVILIANS WHO SUPPORTED HIM WITH WEAPONS TO BE READY TO DISMANTLE MOVEMENTS THAT TRIED TO DESTABILIZE HIS GOVERNMENT.</p><p>AS THE CLOCKS STRUCK MIDNIGHT IN PANAMA, THE U.S. FORCES BEGAN AN OPERATION AGAINST THE PANAMANIAN DEFENSE FORCE BARRACKS. THE TROOPS ALREADY BASED IN PANAMA, AND THOSE FLOWN IN FROM BASES IN CALIFORNIA AND IN OTHER CITIES NEAR PANAMA, STARTED A MASSIVE ATTACK TO OUST GEN NORIEGA.</p><p>THE INVASION, WHICH SEEMED POSSIBLE TO SOME AND TO OTHERS [WORDS INDISTINCT], WERE MAINLY CONDUCTED TO PUNISH SOMEONE WHO HAS BEEN DECLARED ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT LATIN AMERICAN DRUG TRAFFICKERS BY THE U.S. COURTS.</p><p>EARLY THIS MORNING, SOURCES CLOSE TO THE WHITE HOUSE ANNOUNCED THAT THE OPERATION WAS AIMED AT CAPTURING NORIEGA AND TAKING HIM TO THE UNITED STATES TO BE TRIED FOR THE CRIMES ATTRIBUTED TO HIM BY THE U.S. COURTS, AT ENSURING COMPLIANCE WITH THE TREATIES ON THE PANAMA CANAL, AND AT RESTORING DEMOCRACY IN THE COUNTRY FOLLOWING THE FARCICAL MAY-L989 ELECTIONS.</p><p>THESE ARE THE REASONS FOR THE U.S. ARMED INTERVENTION IN PANAMA, WHICH IS FILLING THE WORLD WITH TREPIDATION DUE TO THE DANGER HOVERING OVER THE CONTINENT AND THE FACT THAT PRESIDENT BUSH'S DECISION HAS GONE BEYOND THE LOGIC OF THE U.S. POLICY TOWARD LATIN AMERICA.</p><p>INTERNATIONAL OBSERVERS DID, HOWEVER, GUESS THAT SOMETHING WAS ABOUT TO OCCUR WHEN PRESIDENT BUSH SAID RECENTLY THAT WHILE THE U.S. GOVERNMENT COULD REACH AGREEMENT WITH NICARAGUA, WITH NORIEGA IT WAS IMPOSSIBLE TO REACH ANY AGREEMENT, AND THAT THE UNITED STATES HAD TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT THIS VEILED DANGER THAT THREATENED THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.</p><p>TODAY, PANAMA HAS BECOME A BATTLEFIELD. THE CAPITAL AND OTHER CITIES ARE BATTLEFIELDS ON WHICH THE GOVERNMENT FORCES ARE FIGHTING THE U.S. UNITS IN GROUND, AIR, AND MARITIME OPERATIONS THAT SEEK TO OUST MANUEL ANTONIO NORIEGA.</p><p>THE U.S. ACTION IS FOCUSSING THE WORLD'S ATTENTION ON WASHINGTON'S DECISION. MANY NATIONS WILL PROTEST AND REJECT THE U.S. INVASION WHICH WAS DISGUISED BY A SERIES OF PEACE-SEEKING ACTIONS.</p><p>FOUR DAYS BEFORE CHRISTMAS EVE, THE GHOST OF WAR IS HAUNTING OUR CONTINENT. WE MUST PONDER ON THE NEED TO KEEP HONDURAS ON THE DEMOCRATIC PATH, AND TO AVOID THE ANARCHY THAT DESTROYS NATIONS AND DECIMATES PEOPLES. THE EVENTS THAT HAVE KEPT THE WORLD IN VIGIL SINCE MIDNIGHT WILL CONTINUE FOR HOURS, DAYS, OR MAYBE WEEKS BECAUSE, SO FAR, THE NEWS IS VERY CONFUSING AND CIVILIAN VICTIMS ARE DYING ON THE STREETS OF THE PANAMANIAN TOWNS.</p></body></html>