<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0089"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0089"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-09"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0089</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0089</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 9 DEC 89 (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [TEXT] YESTERDAY MORNING AT 0730, APPROXIMATELY 20 OR 30 TERRORISTS MACHINEGUNNED A ROUTE 302 BUS COVERING THE SAN SALVADOR - USULUTAN AND USULUTAN - SAN SALVADOR ROUTE. ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL REPORT, THIS CRIMINAL ACTION WAS CARRIED OUT BY THE ENEMIES OF THE PEOPLE. THE BUS, WITH LICENSE PLATE 76231, WAS ATTACKED ON THE COASTAL HIGHWAY NEAR LA TIENDITA CANTON, FUENTE RIO GUALEYO, TECOLUCA JURISDICTION, SAN VICENTE DEPARTMENT. FIVE PASSENGERS TRAVELING ON THE BUS TO USULUTAN WERE INJURED DURING THIS AGGRESSIVE ACTION CARRIED OUT BY THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT] AGAINST THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE. THE INJURED PASSENGERS WERE IMMEDIATELY TAKEN TO THE SANTA TERESA HOSPITAL IN ZACATECOLUCA WHERE THEY ARE BEING TREATED.</p><p>LATER, AT APPROXIMATELY 0900 IN THE SAME AREA, CRIMINAL TERRORISTS BURNED NINE VEHICLES. INFORMATION CONCERNING THE BURNED VEHICLES HAS NOT BEEN PROVIDED.</p><p>MEANWHILE, FOUR REBELS WERE KILLED DURING AN ARMED CLASH WITH ENGINEERS MILITARY DETACHMENT TROOPS. THE FMLN TERRORISTS WERE ATTEMPTING TO ENTER THE CHINCHONTEPEQUE NEIGHBORHOOD IN ZACATECOLUCA, LA PAZ DEPARTMENT. THE SOLDIERS ALSO SEIZED THE FOLLOWING MATERIEL: 700 ROUNDS OF AMMUNITION FOR AK-47 RIFLES, 536 ROUNDS OF AMMUNITION FOR M-16 RIFLES, 3 KNAPSACKS WITH CIVILIAN CLOTHING, 6 AK-47 GRENADES, AND A G-3 RIFLE WITH A SERIAL NUMBER THAT CANNOT BE READ. THE ARMED FORCES ARE SHOWING THEIR PROFESSIONALISM BY FIGHTING AGAINST THE ENEMIES OF THE PEOPLE.</p><p>LIKEWISE, AN UNKNOWN NUMBER OF FMLN TERRORISTS ATTACKED THE EL TRIUNFO CIVIL DEFENSE POST, SAN MIGUEL DEPARTMENT. THE FMLN REBELS BURNED THE MUNICIPAL MAYOR'S OFFICE AND THE ANTEL [NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS] OFFICES. THEY ALSO BURNED A GAS STATION OWNED BY VALENTIN VILLATORO AND DESTROYED A PYLON IN SAN FRANCISCO NEIGHBORHOOD. THE ATTACK ON THE DEFENSELESS RESIDENTS RESULTED IN ONE TERRORIST DEAD AND ONE WOUNDED. THE REPORT ADDS THAT THE RESIDENTS OF THE TOWN PRAISED THE ATTITUDE OF THE CIVIL DEFENSE MEMBERS AND REPUDIATED THE FMLN ASSASSINS FOR THEIR CONSTANT ATTACKS ON THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE.</p></body></html>