<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0026"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0026"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-24"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0026</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0026</p><p>BOGOTA, 24 AUG 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE PRESENCE OF BRITISH AND ISRAELI MERCENARIES, PAID BY COLOMBIAN EXTREME RIGHT-WING GROUPS AND DRUG TRAFFICKERS, WAS CONFIRMED TODAY BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY (DAS), COLOMBIA'S SECRET POLICE.</p><p>THE DAS SENT A CONFIDENTIAL REPORT TO COLOMBIAN PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO WHICH WAS PUBLISHED TODAY BY THE LIBERAL NEWSPAPER EL TIEMPO. THE REPORT CONFIRMS THAT THERE IS A COLLABERATION BETWEEN DRUG TRAFFICKERS AND EXTREME RIGHT-WING GROUPS, AND THE PRESENCE OF FOREIGN MERCENARIES IN COLOMBIA -- HIRED BY THE EXTREME RIGHT-WING DRUG-TRAFFICKING ORGANIZATIONS.</p><p>THE OFFICIAL ORGANIZATION ASSERTS THAT THE RECENTLY CREATED EXTREME RIGHTIST MOVEMENT OF NATIONAL RESTORATION (MORENA) "MUST BE IDENTIFIED AS THE CULMINATION OF A SYMBIOSIS BETWEEN DRUG TRAFFICKERS, SELF-DEFENSE GROUPS, GROUPS OF HIRED GUNMEN TRAINED BY FOREIGN MERCENARIES, AND AGRARIAN BUSINESSMEN WHO ARE TIRED OF THE GUERRILLA GROUPS' CONSTANT HARASSMENT."</p><p>THE REPORT INDICATES THAT BRITISH AND ISRAELI MERCENARIES IDENTIFIED AS JOHN OWEN, DAVE TOMKINS, R. PAXTON, P. GLASGOW, A. DEWER, AND P. ATHERTON ENTERED COLOMBIA THROUGH ELDORADO INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT IN JULY, BUT THE INFORMATION DOES NOT GIVE THEIR INDIVIDUAL NATIONALITIES.</p><p>THE DAS ADDS THAT DEAN SHELLEY, PETER MCALEESE, ALEX LENOX, AND ANDRES GIBSON ENTERED THE COUNTRY IN PREVIOUSLY AND SETTLED IN THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS EXTREME RIGHT-WING GROUPS' MILITARY TRAINING CAMPS IN PUERTO BOYACA, MIDDLE MAGDALENA REGION (CENTRAL PART OF THE COUNTRY), LA AZULITA (SOUTHERN PUTUMAYO), PUERTO LOPEZ (META DEPARTMENT), AND EL RECREO (CAQUETA DEPARTMENT) ON THE NORTHEASTERN FLATLANDS.</p><p>RADIO STATIONS' REPORTS ADDED THAT COLONEL YAIR KLEIN HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED AMONG THE ISRAELI MERCENARIES BY THE SECRET SERVICES OF HIS COUNTRY. KLEIN WAS COMMANDER OF A PARATROOPERS' UNIT IN 1983 AND APPARENTLY HAS A PRIVATE SECURITY AGENCY IN ISRAEL.</p><p>ABRAHAM TZADAKA AND JACOBO BRINE WERE ALSO IDENTIFIED BY THEIR FELLOW COUNTRYMEN.</p><p>ON A NATIONAL NEWSCAST BROADCAST SEVERAL WEEKS AGO A VIDEO WHICH SHOWS THE ISRAELI MERCENARIES WEARING BLUE UNIFORMS DURING WAR MANEUVERS WITH THE DRUG-TRAFFICKERS FAR RIGHT-WING GROUPS' PRIVATE ARMY. THE SCENES WERE REPRODUCED BY THE NBC TELEVISION NETWORK IN THE UNITED STATES.</p><p>PREVIOUS REPORTS FROM THE DAS, REVEALED IN COLOMBIA, INDICATE THAT THE COLOMBIANS TRAINED BY THE MERCENARIES INCLUDE PERSONS LINKED WITH THE SELF-DEFENSE GROUPS IN THE MIDDLE MAGDALENA REGION AND THE RECENTLY CREATED MORENA.</p><p>THE FIRST PERSONS TO NOTIFY THE PROSECUTOR GENERAL OF THE NATION, THE HIGHEST AUTHORITY, ABOUT THE PRESENCE OF FOREIGN MERCENARIES AMONG THE DRUG-TRAFFICKERS FAR RIGHT-WING ARMED GROUPS WERE DESERTERS FROM THE MIDDLE MAGDALENA SELF-DEFENSE GROUPS -- IDENTIFIED AS JESUS ALBERTO MOLINA URREA, RICAURTE DUQUE ARBOLEDA, AND VICTOR ARBOLEDA DUQUE.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE DESERTERS' DECLARATIONS, THE ISRAELI MERCENARIES CANNOT SPEAK SPANISH AND THEY FREQUENTLY MET WITH GONZALO DE JESUS PEREZ, HENRY PEREZ, AND MARCELO PEREZ.</p><p>ACCORDING TO THE DAS REPORT REVEALED TODAY, "THE PEREZES," ARE IMPORTANT MEMBERS OF THE ASSOCIATION OF MIDDLE MAGDALENA CATTLEMEN (ACDEGAM), THE SELF-DEFENSE GROUPS, AND MORENA; AND THE AUTHORITIES CHARGE THEM WITH THE MASS MURDERS OF PEASANTS IN URABA, LOCATED IN THE COUNTRY'S NORTHWESTERN AREA.</p></body></html>