<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0069"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0069"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-10"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="HAVANA (CUBA)"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0069</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0069</p><p>HAVANA (CUBA), 10 JAN 90 (RADIO REBELDE NETWORK) -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] DESPITE AMPLE EVIDENCE, NO SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT HAD BLAMED THE ARMED FORCES OF KILLING DEFENSELESS CIVILIANS SINCE THE CIVIL WAR WORSENED IN 1979. THE ANNOUNCEMENT MADE BY PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI OF THE ARREST OF 45 SOLDIERS AND 2 OFFICERS FOR KILLING 6 CLERGYMEN, A MAID, AND HER DAUGHTER, ON 16 NOVEMBER IS IN ITSELF A SMALL AND PARTIAL MILESTONE.</p><p>CRISTIANI, WHOSE NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE PARTY WAS FOUNDED AT THE BEGINNING OF THE EIGHTIES BY INDIVIDUALS LINKED TO PARAMILITARY BANDS, THE ARMY, AND SECURITY CORPS, ASSERTED THAT THE NAMES OF THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CRIMES WILL BE RELEASED IN THE NEXT 48 HOURS.</p><p>JESUIST FRANCISCO ESTRADA, WHO REPLACED FATHER JOSE IGNACIO ELLACURIA -- ONE OF THOSE MASSACRED -- AT THE RECTORSHIP OF THE CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY IN SAN SALVADOR, WARNED THAT IT IS NOT ENOUGH TO KNOW WHICH SARGENT PULLED THE TRIGGER BUT WHO GAVE HIM ORDERS TO DO SO NEEDS TO BE REVEALED. CRISTIANI WILL NOT GO THAT FAR.</p><p>COSMETIC SACRIFICES ARE MADE IN ORDER TO NEUTRALIZE THE THREAT OF U.S. CONGRESS INTERRUPTING THE $1.5 MILLION IT SENDS A DAY FOR THE WAR AGAINST THE FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT [FMLN] AND THE REPRESSION OF THE PEOPLE.</p><p>THE DISMISSAL OF GENERAL JUAN RAFAEL BUSTILLO AS CHIEF OF THE AIR FORCES AND THE POSSIBLE PUNISHMENT OF SOME OF THE COUNTERINSURGENT ATLACATL BATTALION FULFILL THESE REQUIREMENTS. HOWEVER, CRISTIANI WILL ATTEND THE NEXT INFORMAL SUMMIT OF CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS IN TEGUCIGALPA, HONDURAS ON 28 JANUARY UNDER ADVERSE CONDITIONS.</p><p>THE MOBILIZATION OF THE LATIN AMERICAN PUBLIC OPINION AGAINST THE U.S. INTERVENTION IN PANAMA AND ITS AIM OF EXTENDING THE INTERVENTION TO OTHER NATIONS OF THE AREA HAVE WEAKENED WASHINGTON'S DIPLOMATIC SPACE. THIS COULD HAVE AN EFFECT ON ITS POLITICAL ALLY OF EL SALVADOR WHICH, IN THE PREVIOUS SUMMIT HELD IN DECEMBER, PRESENTED NICARAGUA AND THE FMLN AS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE WORSENING OF THE CRISIS IN CENTRAL AMERICA.</p><p>THE FACTS ARE CONCLUSIVE. WHAT WILL NOW BE THE EXCUSE OF SALVADORAN PRESIDENT ALFREDO CRISTIANI AND HIS PROTECTOR GEORGE BUSH?</p></body></html>