<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0013"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0013"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0013</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0013</p><p>LIMA, 20 DEC 89 (TELEVISION PERUANA) -- [EXCERPT] THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH HAS CALLED A SPECIAL SESSION OF CONGRESS FOR TOMORROW AND THE NEXT DAY TO CONSIDER THE SERIOUS SITUATION OF PANAMA AND TO DENOUNCE THE INTER-AMERICAN RECIPROCAL ASSISTANCE TREATY, TIAR, FOR ITS INEFFECTIVENESS. THIS WAS ANNOUNCED BY PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA AT THE CONCLUSION OF A COUNCIL OF MINISTERS MEETING AT GOVERNMENT HOUSE TODAY. THE PRESIDENT ALSO EXPRESSED HIS SURPRISE OVER THE MILDNESS WITH WHICH THE REST OF THE LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES HAVE REACTED TO THE U.S. AGGRESSION AGAINST PANAMA. PRESIDENT GARCIA ALSO SAID THAT THE FUEL PRICE INCREASE WILL ALLOW PETROPERU [STATE PETROLEUM AGENCY] TO OPERATE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] WHAT IMPORTANT SUBJECTS WERE DISCUSSED IN THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS MEETING TODAY?</p><p>[GARCIA] THE MAIN SUBJECT WAS THE DECISION TO CALL A SPECIAL CONGRESSIONAL SESSION ON 22 AND 23 DECEMBER TO CONSIDER THE SERIOUS SITUATION CREATED BY THE U.S. INVASION IN PANAMA. THE SECOND IMPORTANT SUBJECT WAS THE DECISION TO DENOUNCE THE TIAR, A MILITARY ORGANIZATION THAT GROUPS ALL THE LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES AND THE UNITED STATES AND WHICH, ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS, HAS PROVED TO BE ABSOLUTELY INEFFECTIVE AND PARTIAL.</p><p>THE MALVINAS ISLANDS SITUATION IS A GOOD EXAMPLE. ACCORDING TO THE TIAR, THE UNITED STATES SHOULD HAVE SUPPORTED ARGENTINA, BUT IT DID EXACTLY THE CONTRARY, SUPPORTING THE UNITED KINGDOM.</p><p>NOW, IN THIS CASE WITH PANAMA, THE TIAR HAS NOT SERVED ANY PURPOSE. RATHER, IT HAS SERVED TO MASK THE U.S. INVASION OF PANAMA. THEREFORE, SINCE WE CONSIDER THE TIAR TO BE INEFFECTIVE AND SENSELESS, WE, AS A REPUBLIC, MUST DENOUNCE IT. WE MUST WITHDRAW OUR SIGNATURE FROM THE TIAR. THIS MUST BE DONE THROUGH CONGRESS, AND THAT IS WHY WE HAVE CALLED A SPECIAL SESSION.</p><p>[REPORTER] SEVERAL SECTORS HAVE DESCRIBED THE DECISION TO WITHDRAW THE PERUVIAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES AS A HASTY DECISION. WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THAT?</p><p>[GARCIA] I THINK THAT THOSE MUST BE SECTORS COMMITTED TO THE INVASION. THEY MUST SUPPORT A RIGHTIST CONCEPT BY WHICH THE UNITED STATES HAS THE HEGEMONIC RIGHT TO SAFEGUARD OUR DESTINY AND TO DECIDE WHO CAN GOVERN US AND WHO CANNOT.</p><p>AS PERUVIANS AND LATIN AMERICANS, WE FEEL THAT THE AGGRESSIVE AND BLOODY ACTION BY U.S. TROOPS TO OCCUPY A SMALL COUNTRY IS A VIOLATION. THERE ARE CURRENTLY NEARLY 30,000 U.S. SOLDIERS IN PANAMANIAN TERRITORY. THEY HAVE KILLED MANY PEOPLE AND THEY WANT TO IMPOSE A NEW GOVERNMENT. THUS, AS LONG AS THOSE TROOPS REMAIN THERE, AS LONG AS THIS VIOLATION TO LATIN AMERICA IS MAINTAINED, OUR AMBASSADOR WILL NOT STAY IN THAT COUNTRY. THIS DOES NOT IMPLY A BREAK IN RELATIONS; IT REPRESENTS A CLEAR GESTURE OF CONDEMNATION AND DISLIKE.</p><p>AS LONG AS A U.S. SOLDIER VIOLATES THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA, WE WILL KEEP OUR AMBASSADOR HERE. AS LONG AS THE UNITED STATES DOES NOT WITHDRAW THEIR TROOPS AND PANAMA REMAINS OCCUPIED, THE PANAMANIAN AND PERUVIAN FLAGS WILL REMAIN TOGETHER.</p><p>[REPORTER] DON'T YOU THINK THAT THIS ATTITUDE COULD HARM CERTAIN RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES; THAT IS, COULDN'T IT JEOPARDIZE THE IMF LOAN?</p><p>[GARCIA] NOT AT ALL. THESE ARE TWO ABSOLUTELY DIFFERENT THINGS. THE NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE IMF ARE ONE THING; THE INTERNATIONAL POLITICAL ATTITUDE OF A GOVERNMENT THAT ABUSES ITS ECONOMIC AND MILITARY POWER WITH OTHER COUNTRIES IS SOMETHING ELSE.</p><p>BESIDES, WE SHOULD MENTION SOMETHING VERY IMPORTANT. AS FOR PANAMANIAN-U.S. RELATIONS, THE AMERICANS HAVE BEEN THE MAIN ACCOMPLICES IN DEPRIVING PANAMA OF DEMOCRACY. WHEN ELECTIONS TOOK PLACE IN 1984, WHEN ARNULFO ARIAS SHOULD HAVE WON, THE UNITED STATES DECIDED THAT IT WAS NOT CONVENIENT THAT ARIAS SHOULD WIN, SO A LARGE FRAUD -- AS IT WAS DECLARED AT THE TIME -- WAS CARRIED OUT TO PLACE NICOLAS ARDITO BARLETTA IN POWER. THE FIRST ONES TO RECOGNIZE ARDITO WERE THE AMERICANS. ARDITO WAS PLACED IN THE PRESIDENCY BY NORIEGA.</p><p>IN 1985 NORIEGA REMOVED ARDITO AND PUT ERIC ARTURO DEL VALLE IN HIS PLACE. THE AMERICANS IMMEDIATELY RECOGNIZED DEL VALLE AS PRESIDENT. THEREFORE, THE UNITED STATES HAS BEEN NORIEGA'S ACCOMPLICE IN DEPRIVING PANAMA OF DEMOCRACY. WE DENOUNCED THIS. NORIEGA IS A CREATION OF THE UNITED STATES. IT HAS REPEATEDLY BEEN SAID THAT NORIEGA WORKED WITH THE UNITED STATES AND WITH THE U.S. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY, WHERE PRESIDENT BUSH WAS ONCE CHIEF.</p><p>THEREFORE, NOW THAT THE MAID IS ANSWERING BACK, MAKING CLAIMS TO THE PANAMA CANAL AND WANTING TO BECOME INDEPENDENT FROM THE UNITED STATES, THE UNITED STATES SUDDENLY DISCOVERS THAT SHE IS A DRUG TRAFFICKER AND THAT SHE DOES NOT SERVE ITS INTERESTS, SO THEY SEND 30,000 U.S. SOLDIERS TO PANAMA. THIS IS AN ABUSE. IT IS A VIOLATION OF THE SOVEREIGNTY OF ANOTHER STATE.</p><p>NO HONORABLE LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRY SHOULD TOLERATE THIS INVASION WITHOUT ACTIVELY AND OPENLY CONDEMNING IT. ONE WAY TO CONDEMN IT AND EXPRESS DISAPPROVAL OF IT IS TO SAY THAT AS LONG AS THE TROOPS INVADING LATIN AMERICA REMAIN, WE DO NOT NEED TO MAINTAIN OUR AMBASSADOR THERE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>