<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0016"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0016"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0016</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0016</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 23 NOV 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [COMMENTARY] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] THE OFFICERS AND EVERYONE ELSE IN THE ARMY MUST THINK THIS OVER. THEY CANNOT CONTINUE CLOSING THEIR EYES TO THE BOMBINGS, TO THE THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE LEFT THE POOR NEIGHBORHOODS OF SAN SALVADOR, TO THE MOTHERS WHO APPEAR CRYING ON TELEVISION. IT IS GOOD THAT THE NETWORK PRESENTS THESE PICTURES OF PEOPLE CRYING, MANIPULATING THEIR EMOTIONS. THOSE TEARS WERE SHED OVER 50 YEARS OF OPPRESSION AND MISERY, AND OVER THE BOMBINGS THAT HAVE DESTROYED ZACAMIL NEIGHBORHOOD. OFFICERS, THE BOMBS HAVE CAUSED ALL THAT SORROW AND THE DESTRUCTION OF 500 HOUSES IN ZACAMIL.</p><p>AS WE WERE SAYING, OFFICERS, YOU MUST ASK YOURSELVES: WHO ARE YOU DYING FOR? FOR COLONEL PONCE'S MANSIONS IN MIAMI? FOR GENERAL BUSTILLO'S MANSIONS? WHY ARE THE ARMED FORCES MEMBERS DYING HERE? WHY ARE THE LIEUTENANTS, THE CAPITAINS DYING, WHILE THE MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES HIERARCHY ARE CONFORTABLY SITTING IN THEIR AIR-CONDITIONED OFFICES BEING GUARDED WHILE THEY ARE AT EASE, BUT NOT REALLY AT EASE AS COMBAT IS TAKING PLACE JUST A FEW BLOCKS FROM THEIR OFFICE.</p><p>OFFICERS, LIEUTENANTS, CAPTAINS, THIS IS THE APPEAL THE FMLN WANTS MAKE TO YOU TODAY, AT A TIME WHEN THE FUTURE OF THE FATHERLAND IS AT STAKE? YOU MUST THINK THIS OVER, YOU MUST MAKE A DECISION, AND YOU MUST DO THIS SOON. HISTORY IS MOVING FAST, AND THE TIME IS RIPE. SO WHEN YOU ARE TOLD THAT YOU ARE DEFENDING THE CONSTITUTION, THINK ABOUT WHAT WE ARE TELLING YOU. IF YOU ARE DEFENDING THE CONSTITUTION, THINK ABOUT WHAT WE ARE SAYING. IF WE ARE DEFENDING THE CONSTITUTION HERE, WHY IS THIS CONSTITUTION BEING VIOLATED BY THOSE RAMBOS SENT BY PRESIDENT BUSH TO EL SALVADOR? YOU ALL KNOW THIS LITTLE GROUP OF RAMBOS IS GOOD FOR NOTHING, AS THEY ARE COWARDS. THEY DID NOT WANT TO LEAVE THE SHERATON HOTEL, BECAUSE THE GUERRILLAS WERE THERE. THEY ARE COWARDS, JUST LIKE THEIR SYSTEM. THEY ARE TINHORN RAMBOS, WHO ARE ABSOLUTELY NO GOOD.</p><p>AS WE SAID YESTERDAY, IF THOSE MEN WHO LEFT THE SHERATON LIKE COMMON CRIMINALS COVERING THEIR FACES FROM THE INTERNATIONAL PRESS ARE THE ONES WHO ARE TRAINING THE ARMED FORCES, WE CAN UNDERSTAND BETTER WHY THE FMLN IS DEFEATING THE TACTICS TAUGHT BY THEM. THEY ARE NO GOOD, BECAUSE THEY DO NOT UNDERSTAND OUR PEOPLE, THEY UNDERESTIMATE OUR PEOPLE. OFFICERS, YOU KNOW THOSE U.S. ADVISERS UNDERESTIMATE YOU, THEY LOOK DOWN ON YOU, AS LITTLE INDIANS, AS DONKEYS. YOU KNOW HOW THEY THINK OF YOU. YOU KOW THEY MOCK THE SALVADORAN OFFICERS. OFFICERS, YOU KNOW VERY WELL HOW THESE U.S. ADVISERS TREAT OUR SOLDIERS. THEY ARE HAUGHTY, ARROGANT, AND COWARDS. YOU SAW THEM AT THE SHERATON HOTEL, PISSING IN THEIR PANTS, THEY DID NOT WANT TO LEAVE THE HOTEL. A COMMISSION WENT THERE, THE RED CROSS WENT THERE, BUT THEY DID NOT WANT TO LEAVE, BECAUSE THEY WERE NOT SURE OF THEMSELVES DURING THE TRUCE, SIMPLY BECAUSE THEY ARE COWARDS.</p><p>WE WANT THE CIN [NATIONAL INFORMATION CENTER], THAT FASCIST NETWORK THAT IS SILENCING OUR PEOPLE, TO PRESENT THE FILMS OF THE ADVISORS LEAVING THE HOTEL. WE CHALLENGE THE NETWORK TO PRESENT THOSE FILMS OF THE ADVISORS LEAVING THE SHERATON, WITH THEIR FACES COVERED AS IF THEY WERE CAR THIEVES. THAT IS THE WAY THE U.S. ADVISERS -- THE RAMBOS, THE SUPERMEN -- LEFT THE SHERATON. THESE RAMBOS ARE NOT GOING TO SAVE ANYONE, AS THEY CANNOT EVEN SAVE THEMSELVES.</p></body></html>