<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0067"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0067"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-10-20"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="NO CITY (EL SALVADOR)"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0067</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0067</p><p>NO CITY (EL SALVADOR), 20 OCT 89 -- [SPEECH] [CRISTIANI] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] AND WHAT DO THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS MEAN WITH THAT VERY CATEGORICAL PASSAGE? THEY WANT TO SAY THAT IT IS THE FMLN THAT MUST STOP ITS HOSTILITIES, AND DO SO AT ONCE, IMMEDIATELY, AND EFFECTIVELY IN ORDER TO HOLD A DIALOGUE. WHAT THIS MEANS IS THAT THE PRESIDENTS, AS ANY RATIONAL PEOPLE, FEEL IT IS MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO CONDUCT A PROCESS OF DIALOGUE WITHOUT BOMBS AND BULLETS. WHAT ELSE DOES THE AGREEMENT SAY? IT SAYS THE END OF HOSTILITIES WILL PERMIT A DIALOGUE SO THAT THE FMLN WILL LATER ABANDON THE ARMED STRUGGLE, DISBAND AS AN ARMED GROUP, SURRENDER ITS WEAPONS, AND JOIN DEMOCRATIC AND INSTITUTIONAL LIFE.</p><p>BY THIS, THEY -- EVEN NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ORTEGA WHO SIGNED THE AGREEMENT -- MEAN THERE IS INSTITUTIONAL LIFE IN EL SALVADOR AND DEMOCRACY, WHICH THEY ARE ASKING THE FMLN TO JOIN. THIS IS THE SPIRIT OF THE PROPOSAL THE GOVERNMENT TOOK TO SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA. BECAUSE THE PROPOSAL WE ADOPTED IS SO LONG, IT WOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE FOR ME TO READ IT TO YOU, SO THAT YOU CAN BE INFORMED.</p><p>HOWEVER, YOU WILL BE ABLE TO SEE FOR YOURSELVES TOMORROW WHAT I AM SAYING TO YOU TONIGHT, BECAUSE THE PROPOSAL WILL BE PUBLISHED IN ALL OF OUR COUNTRY'S NEWSPAPERS. THERE, YOU WILL SEE THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS FAITHFULLY COMPLYING WITH WHAT THE FIVE CENTRAL AMERICAN PRESIDENTS SIGNED IN THE TELA ACCORD, AND THAT WE ARE FOLLOWING UP ON THE TERMS OF THE FIRST DIALOGUE IN MEXICO.</p><p>WHAT DOES THE FMLN DO IN SAN JOSE? FIRST, DRAWING AWAY FROM THE AGREEMENT MADE IN MEXICO, IT DOES NOT WANT TO TALK ABOUT CEASING HOSTILITIES. IT INTRODUCES SEVERAL PROPOSALS, WHICH THE FMLN CLAIMS ARE AN EXPANSION ON THE MEXICO PROPOSAL, AND PRESENTS SEVERAL DOCUMENTS TO THE SALVADORAN DELEGATION. BY THE WAY, THE FMLN ALSO VIOLATES THE MEXICO PACT BY NOT RESPECTING THE DISCRETION OF THE DIALOGUE PROCESS. ONCE AGAIN IT PRESENTS THESE DOCUMENTS TO THE NEWS MEDIA BEFORE PRESENTING THEM TO THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT DELEGATION. AS YOU WILL SEE, THE DELEGATION RECEIVED QUITE A FEW DOCUMENTS FROM THE FMLN THERE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>