<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0062"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0062"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-02-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0062</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0062</p><p>BOGOTA, 1 FEB 89 (DPA) -- [TEXT] THE ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION (ELN) HAS ANNOUNCED IN A COMMUNIQUE SENT TO ANTONIO ROLDAN BETANCUR, GOVERNOR OF THE NORTHWESTERN ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT, THAT IT REJECTS THE PEACE PLAN PROPOSED BY THE GOVERNMENT AND THAT IT WILL CONTINUE ARMED ATTACKS, IT WAS LEARNED A FEW HOURS AGO.</p><p>ACCORDING TO INITIAL REPORTS, THE ARMED MOVEMENT--THE MOST RADICAL OF THE GUERRILLA GROUPS IN THE COUNTRY--SENT THE MESSAGE THROUGH LUIS MESA PUERTA, A POLICE INSPECTOR OF EL TIGRE, WHO WAS KIDNAPED LAST FRIDAY FOR THIS PURPOSE.</p><p>ROLDAN BETANCUR DID NOT DISCLOSE ANY MORE DETAILS AND MERELY CONFIRMED THAT THE CASTROITE ELN, WHICH HAS STAGED SEVERAL DYNAMITE ATTACKS AGAINST OIL INSTALLATIONS, DID NOT ACCEPT THE PROPOSAL MADE BY PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS' GOVERNMENT.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE M-19 SENT A LETTER A FEW HOURS AGO TO MISAEL PASTRANA BORRERO, A FORMER PRESIDENT AND MEMBER OF THE OPPOSITION SOCIAL CONSERVATIVE PARTY (PSC), REQUESTING THAT HIS PARTY ACTIVELY PARTICIPATE IN A NEW PEACE INITIATIVE THAT FORMALLY BEGAN THE 2D WEEK OF JANUARY.</p><p>AT THAT TIME, ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNMENT, RAFAEL PARDO RUEDA--THE PRESIDENTIAL ADVISER FOR PEACE--AND THE TOP M-19 COMMANDER, CARLOS PIZARRO LEON GOMEZ, SIGNED A PRELIMINARY AGREEMENT THAT CONTEMPLATES THE BEGINNING OF A DIRECT DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE GUERRILLA GROUPS AND SPOKESMEN OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES REPRESENTED IN PARLIAMENT.</p><p>HOWEVER, THE FARC, WHICH DECLARED A UNILATERAL TRUCE TO FACILIATE THE BEGINNING OF THE CONVERSATIONS, SAID THAT THESE AGREEMENTS WERE "EXCLUSIVE," AS THEY WERE SIGNED BY ONLY ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S REBEL MOVEMENTS.</p><p>THE DOCUMENT SIGNED BY THE GOVERNMENT AND THE M-19 SPECIFIES THAT THE TASKS WITH ALL THE REBEL ORGANIZATIONS ARE CONDUCTED THROUGH THE SIMON BOLIVAR NATIONAL GUERRILLA COORDINATING BOARD (CNGSB). HOWEVER, WITH THE ELN ANNOUNCEMENT, A JOINT AGREEMENT HAS BEEN RULED OUT.</p><p>MEANWHILE, PRIOR TO LEAVING TODAY FOR CARACAS WHERE HE WILL ATTEND THE INAUGURATION OF CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ, THE PRESIDENT HELD A MEETING WITH THE CHIEFS OF THE TWO TRADITIONAL PARTIES, FORMER PRESIDENTS JULIO CESAR TURBAY OF THE RULING LIBERAL PARTY, AND PASTRANA BORRERO, OF THE PSC.</p><p>THE MEETING HELD AT THE NARINO PALACE (SEAT OF THE GOVERNMENT) WAS CALLED SO THAT BARCO VARGAS COULD REPORT TO THE PSC ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE MOST RECENT EVENTS CONCERNING THE NEW PEACE PROCESS THAT BEGAN WITH THE M-19.</p><p>ACCORDING TO SOME POLITICAL CIRCLES, IN THIS MANNER THE PATH TOWARD PEACE MIGHT BE CLEARED, INASMUCH AS ONE OF THE "RESERVATIONS" THE PSC HAD WAS THAT THE BARCO VARGAS GOVERNMENT DID NOT CONSULT WITH THE PARTIES ON THE NEGOTIATIONS.</p></body></html>