<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0019"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0019"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-26"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SAN SALVADOR"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0019</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0019</p><p>SAN SALVADOR, 26 JAN 90 (CANAL DOCE TELEVISION) -- [REPORT] [MAURICIO FUNES] [TEXT] AFTER NEARLY A 2-MONTH ABSENCE FROM THE NATIONAL PRESS, MAJOR ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON HOLDS THE VIEW THAT THE ARMED FORCES SHOULD NOT BE CRITICIZED FOR THE ISOLATED BEHAVIOR OF SOME OF ITS MEMBERS. THE ARENA [NATIONALIST REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE] LEADER IS OF THE OPINION THAT THE ARMED FORCES THEMSELVES WERE THE ONES THAT EXERTED PRESSURE SO THAT THE JESUITS' MURDER CASE COULD BE CLEARED-UP.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [D'AUBUISSON] IT WAS NOT THE INSTITUTION [ARMED FORCES] THAT WAS INVOLVED IN THE PROBLEM. REGRETTABLY SOME OF ITS MEMBERS DID IT AND NOW THE ENTIRE ARMED FORCES ARE UNDER PRESSURE FOR POLITICAL REASONS. HOWEVER, WE MUST REALIZE THAT IT IS THANKS TO THE ARMED FORCES THAT WE HAVE THIS DEMOCRATIC PROCESS, WITH A HOPE THAT OUR COUNTRY DEVELOPS AND RECOVERS. IT IS VERY UNFAIR THAT SOME PEOPLE PASS JUDGMENT OR CRITICIZE WITHOUT REALLY KNOWING HOW HARD IT HAS BEEN ON ALL THE OFFICERS, NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICERS, AND TROOPS WHO HAVE HAD TO PUT UP WITH THESE ATTACKS IN ADDITION TO THE INTENSE WORK THEY HAVE HAD FOR THE PAST FEW MONTHS. [END RECORDING]</p><p>D'AUBUISSON SAID THAT ONCE THE MURDER OF THE SIX JESUITS HAS BEEN CLEARED UP, U.S. AUTHORITIES HAVE NO REASON TO QUESTION THE CONTINUATION OF U.S. ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE TO THE COUNTRY.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [D'AUBUISSON] THE JESUITS' CASE WAS A DETERMINING FACTOR. BUT NOW THAT THE CASE HAS BEEN FULLY SOLVED WITH THE HELP OF THE FBI, SCOTLAND YARD, AND INVESTIGATORS FROM OTHER COUNTRIES, THIS IS NO LONGER A PROBLEM, ALTHOUGH PREVIOUSLY IT WAS SERIOUS. I DO NOT BELIEVE THERE CAN BE ANY DOUBT NOW ABOUT RECEIVING THE AID, ESPECIALLY AFTER THE TREMENDOUS OFFENSIVE LAUNCHED BY THE FMLN [FARABUNDO MARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT]. FOR ARGUMENT'S SAKE, IF THE SITUATION DID ARISE [WHEREBY AID WAS SUSPENDED], THIS WOULD ONLY FAVOR THE FMLN. I KNOW THE FMLN HAS A WHOLE RANGE OF SUPPORT GROUPS THAT HANDLE DISINFORMATION AND MAKE IT APPEAR AS IF THINGS HERE WERE DISASTROUS. FOR EXAMPLE, INFORMATION ABROAD IS THAT THE AIR FORCE LEVELED ALL THE NEIGHBORHOODS. WE SALVADORANS KNOW THAT THE AIR FORCE WAS EXCESSIVELY CAUTIOUS AND DID AN EXCELLENT JOB REPELLING THIS ATTACK WITH A MINIMUM OF CIVILIANS WOUNDED. FOR THAT MATTER, IF WE ARE GOING TO COMPARE THINGS, U.S. MILITARY OPERATIONS IN PANAMA WERE MORE CLUMSY -- THERE THEY SET A WHOLE NEIGHBORHOOD ON FIRE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>THE ARENA LEADER ALSO DENIED THAT THERE WERE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN PRESIDENT CRISTIANI AND HIMSELF. ACCORDING TO INTERNATIONAL PRESS AGENCIES, THE DECISION OF THE SALVADORAN PRESIDENT TO PROSECUTE THE MILITARY MEN INVOLVED IN THE JESUITS' MURDER CAUSED DIVISION WITHIN THE PARTY. D'AUBUISSON DENIED THIS WAS TRUE.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [D'AUBUISSON] NOT IN THE LEAST. THERE HAVE NEVER BEEN ANY DIFFERENCES WITH PRESIDENT CRISTIANI. ON THE CONTRARY, WE ARE VERY CLOSE AND GRATEFUL FOR THE GREAT EFFORT, WORK, AND THE MAGNIFICENT JOB PRESIDENT CRISTIANI IS DOING. THIS IS REASON FOR PRIDE NOT ONLY AMONG FRIENDS OF PRESIDENT CRISTIANI BUT FOR THE PARTY AND FRIENDS OF THE SALVADORAN GOVERNMENT. [END RECORDING]</p><p>IN COMMENTING ON THE DIALOGUE WITH THE FMLN, D'AUBUISSON SUPPORTED PRESIDENT CRITIANI'S INITIATIVE OF ENGAGING THE ASSISTANCE OF THE UN SECRETARY GENERAL.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [D'AUBUISSON] I DO NOT THINK HE HAS THE TIME TO ACT AS MEDIATOR; HOWEVER, HE COULD ACT AS A GUARANTOR, RECEIVING RESULTS OF THESE TALKS AND ENSURING COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMMITMENTS MADE. [END RECORDING]</p><p>MAJ ROBERTO D'AUBUISSON, CURRENTLY AN ARENA DEPUTY, SAID THAT THIS YEAR HE WILL DEDICATE HIS TIME TO EXPAND AND REORGANIZE THE PARTY TO GET READY FOR THE 1991 MUNICIPAL AND PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS. HE WILL MOST LIKELY NOT BE AN ARENA DEPUTY IN THE NEXT LEGISLATIVE PERIOD, BECAUSE HE, ALONG WITH OTHER FORMER LEGISLATORS, WILL CONCENTRATE THEIR POLITICAL ACTIVITIES ON THE CENTRAL AMERICAN PARLIAMENT.</p></body></html>