<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0091"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0091"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-03-28"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0091</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0091</p><p>CLANDESTINE, 28 MAR 89 (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] WHEN NAPOLEON DUARTE WAS PROCLAIMED PRESIDENT OF EL SALVADOR IN 1984, THE WHITE HOUSE, STATE DEPARTMENT, PENTAGON, AND ALL THE POWERFUL CIRCLES IN THE UNITED STATES WERE STRICKEN WITH EUPHORIA AND OPTIMISM. DUARTE PROMISED A SOCIAL PACT, A TOLERANT REGIME, ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL REFORMS, AND, MOST IMPORTANT OF ALL, HE PROMISED PEACE.</p><p>ALL OF THESE PROMISES WERE ONLY A MEANS OF ACHIEVING WASHINGTON'S GREAT OBJECTIVE: TO CONTROL THE REVOLUTION IN EL SALVADOR OR, IN OTHER WORDS, COUNTERINSURGENCY. FIVE YEARS HAVE PASSED SINCE THEN. IN REALITY 8 YEARS HAVE PASSED SINCE EL SALVADOR BECAME THE PLACE WHERE THE REAGAN ERA'S MODELS OF COUNTERINSURGENCY, NEODICTATORSHIP, AND LOW-INTENSITY WARFARE WERE IMPLEMENTED.</p><p>WASHINGTON'S EUPHORIA AND OPTIMISM HAVE COMPLETELY VANISHED. THE 19 MARCH ELECTIONS SEALED THE COLLAPSE OF THE REAGAN ADMINISTRATION'S SALVADORAN STRATEGY. TWO BASIC FACTORS ARE AT THE ROOT OF THE U.S. FAILURE: FIRST, THE UNITED STATES SOUGHT DEMAGOGIC AND POLITICALLY UNSOUND REFORMS. DUARTE DID NOT IN ANY WAY IMPROVE THE MASSES' EXTREME POVERTY AND ISOLATION. SECOND, THE REVOLUTIONARY, POPULAR, AND DEMOCRATIC FORCES' QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE PROGRESS WAS POSSIBLE BECAUSE THE PROBLEMS THAT LED TO THE CONFLICT ARE--TODAY MORE THAN EVER--STILL UNRESOLVED.</p><p>THE 19 MARCH ELECTIONS RESULTED IN AN ARENA VICTORY, AND ARENA IS THE PARTY THAT REPRESENTS THE MOST ULTRACONSERVATIVE OLIGARCHIC SECTORS. WASHINGTON HAS RETURNED TO ITS STARTING POINT. THE $3 BILLION SPENT ON MILITARY ADVICE AND THE GENOCIDE OF TENS OF THOUSANDS OF SALVADORANS SERVED NO PURPOSE WHATSOEVER. IT IS ALL OVER. ARENA REPRESENTS A RETURN TO THE SYSTEM USED PRIOR TO 15 OCTOBER 1979. IN OTHER WORDS, IT IS A RETURN TO DICTATORIAL CONTROL OF ALL POLITICAL, ECONOMIC, AND MILITARY POWER. THIS IS THE END, THE SAD END OF THE LOW-INTENSITY WAR EXERCISE.</p><p>U.S. GENERAL HARRY GORDON SUMMER, A MEMBER OF THE SANTA FE GROUP, IN HIS BOOK ON THE MISTAKES THE UNITED STATES MADE IN VIETNAM, SAID THE UNITED STATES' CONCEPT OF VICTORY AFTER ITS DEFEAT IN VIETNAM CAN NO LONGER BE TO ACHIEVE ITS ENEMY'S UNCONDITIONAL SURRENDER, AS IN WORLD WAR II, BUT TO ACHIEVE THE POLITICAL OBJECTIVES FOR WHICH IT STARTED THE WAR. THIS IS PRECISELY THE CONCEPT OF VICTORY USED IN LOW-INTENSITY WARFARE. ARENA'S VICTORY, AND THE SUBSEQUENT RETURN TO THE OLD SYSTEM, IS OBVIOUSLY CONTRARY TO THE OBJECTIVE OF LOW-INTENSITY WARFARE.</p><p>FOR WASHINGTON, OF COURSE, THIS DEFEAT MEANS THAT $3 BILLION WAS SQUANDERED. FOR THE SALVADORAN PEOPLE AND CENTRAL AMERICANS, IT MEANS RAZED TOWNS, DEVASTATED ECONOMIES, AND THE DEATH OF 70,000 PEOPLE. THE NEW U.S. ADMINISTRATION DOES NOT HAVE A DEFINITE PLAN FOR EL SALVADOR. WHAT IT HAS IS AN UNCOMFORTABLE ALLY, ARENA, AND A SOCIAL TIME BOMB ABOUT TO EXPLODE.</p><p>THE FMLN BELIEVES THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION SHOULD STUDY THE NEW SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR AND THE ENTIRE WORLD IN A REALISTIC AND PRAGMATIC MANNER. THE WAR IN EL SALVADOR CONTINUES AND WILL CONTINUE AS LONG AS THERE IS NO CHANGE, NO REAL CHANGE, TO BENEFIT THE MASSES THAT ARE STRUGGLING FOR THAT CHANGE. THIS IS OUR NEW REALITY, AND IF THE NEW U.S. ADMINISTRATION WANTS PEACE AND STABILITY IN THE REGION, IT MUST ESTABLISH A FOREIGN POLICY THAT REFLECTS THAT REALITY.</p></body></html>