<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0040"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0040"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-01-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0040</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0040</p><p>BOGOTA, 4 JAN 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] TODAY "THE EXTRADITABLES," AN ORGANIZATION CONSIDERED TO BE THE ARMED SECTOR OF THE "MEDELLIN CARTEL," ORDERED "ITS LEADERS" IN LOW-INCOME NEIGHBORHOODS "TO TAKE HOSTAGES FROM TRADITIONAL BOURGEOISIE SECTORS TO FINANCE THE WAR" IT IS WAGING WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO.</p><p>"THE EXTRADITABLES" SENT A 7-POINT COMMUNIQUE TO SEVERAL MEDIA SOURCES IN MEDELLIN, CALLING ON THEIR MEN TO DEMAND LARGE SUMS OF MONEY FROM THE RELATIVES OF THE PERSONS THEY KIDNAP.</p><p>THEY ALSO RECOMMEND THAT THE PERSONS WHO ARE GOING TO CARRY OUT THE ABDUCTIONS SHOULD SELECT THE VICTIMS FROM AMONG POLITICIANS AND MEMBERS OF THE COLOMBIAN BOURGEOISIE "WHO HAVE NEVER DISTINGUISHED THEMSELVES BY MAKING SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE COMMUNITY."</p><p>THEY ADD THAT "50 PERCENT OF THE FUNDS OBTAINED FROM SUCH MILITARY ACTIONS ARE TO BE USED TO FINANCE THE WAR AGAINST THE POLITICAL OLIGARCHY AND THE OTHER 50 PERCENT TO RECONSTRUCT LOW-INCOME HOUSING FOR THE HOMELESS."</p><p>ANOTHER POINT NOTES THAT "THIS MEASURE HAS BEEN TAKEN AS A RESPONSE TO THE OFFICIAL PERSECUTION AGAINST OUR FAMILIES AND ORGANIZATIONS," AND IT CONCLUDES BY STATING THAT "WE ARE WILLING TO HOLD A DIALOGUE AS THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE ARE REQUESTING AND DESIRE."</p><p>ON 24 AUGUST 1989, "THE EXTRADITABLES" ANNOUNCED A COUNTEROFFENSIVE IN RESPONSE TO THE OFFICIAL ACTIONS OF PRESIDENT BARCO'S GOVERNMENT. THE GOVERNMENT INITIATED THE ATTACK ON THE DRUG-TRAFFICKING MAFIAS AFTER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE LUIS CARLOS GALAN WAS KILLED ON 18 AUGUST.</p><p>SINCE THEN, DRUG TRAFFICKERS BEGAN A SERIES OF ATTACKS WITH EXPLOSIVES AND CAR BOMBS MAINLY AGAINST BANKING ORGANIZATIONS, POLITICAL HEADQUARTERS, AND NEWSPAPERS.</p><p>ON 2 SEPTEMBER, A CAR BOMB DESTROYED THE INSTALLATIONS OF "EL ESPECTADOR" NEWSPAPER IN BOGOTA AND 5 WEEKS LATER ANOTHER CAR BOMB CAUSED SIMILAR DAMAGE TO THE "VANGUARDIA LIBERAL" NEWSPAPER IN BUCARAMANGA, IN NORTHEASTERN COLOMBIA.</p><p>SEVERAL SECURITY FORCES HEADQUARTERS HAVE ALSO BEEN HIT BY THESE ATTACKS AND AN AVIANCA AIRLINES PLANE BLEW UP IN MIDAIR ON 27 NOVEMBER KILLING ALL 107 PASSENGERS AND CREW.</p><p>A WEEK LATER, A BUS BOMB BLEW UP IN THE VICINITY OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY (DAS), IN THE CENTER OF BOGOTA, AND DESTROYED THE 11-FLOOR BUILDING, LEAVING 67 DEAD AND APPROXIMATELY 1,000 WOUNDED.</p></body></html>