<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0100"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0100"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-04-01"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="LIMA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0100</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0100</p><p>LIMA, 1 APR 90 (EFE) -- [TEXT] THE PERUVIAN ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN TODAY ENTERED ITS FINAL STRETCH, WITH ONLY ONE WEEK TO GO IN AN ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN THAT HAS BEEN THE MOST DISPUTED AND DANGEROUS ONE IN THE HISTORY OF THAT ANDEAN COUNTRY, PRIMARILY BECAUSE OF TERRORIST THREATS.</p><p>THE SPREADING WAVE OF TERRORISM, AIMED AT STOPPING THE ELECTIONS FROM TAKING PLACE, FORCED PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA'S ADMINISTRATION TO TAKE DRASTIC SECURITY MEASURES TO PROTECT THE NEARLY 3,500 CANDIDATES [PASSAGE INDISTINCT] ARE DEPLOYED, ESPECIALLY IN AREAS UNDER STATE OF EMERGENCY AND WHERE THE ACTIVITIES OF SHINING PATH'S TERRORIST GANGS ARE MORE WIDESPREAD, SUCH AS LIMA AND THE DEPARTMENTS OF AYACUCHO, HUANCAVELICA, APURIMAC, AND JUNIN.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT HAS APPOINTED FOUR MEMBERS OF THE SECURITY FORCES TO PROTECT EACH CANDIDATE AND HAS TAKEN OUT LIFE INSURANCE ON ALMOST 250,000 PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN SELECTED BY LOTTERY TO WORK AT OVER 52,000 POLLING STATIONS. IN LIMA ALONE, HUNDREDS OF MEMBERS OF POLLING STATION TEAMS HAVE ASKED TO BE RELIEVED OF THIS DUTY, PETITIONS WHICH FOR THE MOST PART HAVE BEEN REFUSED BY THE THE ELECTORAL COURT.</p><p>IN LIMA, THE MAIN OBSTACLE TO NORMAL ELECTIONS ON SUNDAY COULD BE THE STRIKE OF PRIVATE BUS OWNERS WHO ARE AFRAID OF TERRORIST REPRISALS. THE "MINI-BUS-OWNERS" (INDIVIDUAL OWNERS OF URBAN BUSES) HAVE ASKED THAT FOUR POLICEMEN BE ASSIGNED TO EACH BUS, A REQUEST THAT DEPARTMENTAL PREFECT (GOVERNOR) JACOBO MISHKIN HAS DEEMED "IMPOSSIBLE."</p><p>"IF THERE IS NO TRANSPORTATION, THE PEOPLE WILL WALK," PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA HAS SAID, REAFFIRMING HIS "ABSOLUTE CONFIDENCE" THAT THE PERUVIAN PEOPLE WILL VOTE EN MASSE -- DESPITE THE TERRORIST THREATS -- TO "STRENGTHEN DEMOCRACY," RECOVERED IN 1980 AFTER 12 YEARS OF MILITARY GOVERNMENTS. PRESIDENT ALAN GARCIA, NATIONAL ELECTION BOARD PRESIDENT CARLOS CASTANEDA, AND THE CANDIDATES HAVE BEEN URGING THE NEARLY 10 MILLION VOTERS TO COMPLY WITH THEIR CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY BY CASTING THEIR VOTES.</p><p>THE GOVERNMENT CLAIMS THAT A LARGE TURNOUT WILL AMOUNT TO "THE MOST EFFECTIVE REJECTION OF SUBVERSION" AND THAT IT WILL "STRENGTHEN DEMOCRACY" IN PERU, WHICH HAS ALMOST 22 MILLION INHABITANTS.</p><p>OUT OF THE NINE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES, FOUR HAVE THE BEST CHANCES, ALTHOUGH ONLY THE CANDIDATE OF THE CENTER RIGHT, MARIO VARGAS LLOSA, IS THE CLEAR-CUT FAVORITE. HE WILL GET AN ESTIMATED 45 PERCENT OF THE VOTES, ACCORDING TO THE LATEST SURVEYS.</p><p>ACCORDING TO PERUVIAN LAW, IF VARGAS LLOSA DOES NOT GET ABSOLUTE MAJORITY HE WILL HAVE TO PARTICIPATE IN A RUNOFF ELECTION WITH THE SECOND-PLACE CANDIDATE. SINCE IT IS QUITE CERTAIN THAT VARGAS LLOSA, THE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE OF THE DEMOCRATIC FRONT (FREDEMO), WILL WIN THE FIRST ROUND, THE QUESTION NOW IS WHO WILL BE HIS RIVAL FOR THE PRESIDENCY IN THE SECOND ROUND. ACCORDING TO THE SURVEYS, THE CANDIDATES WITH THE BEST CHANCE ARE LUIS ALVA CASTRO OF THE RULING AMERICAN POPULAR REVOLUTIONARY ALLIANCE (APRA), WITH 19 PERCENT OF THE VOTES; ALFONSO BARRANTES LINGAN OF THE SOCIALIST LEFT (IS), WITH 12 PERCENT; AND HENRY PEASE OF THE COMMUNIST LEFT WING COALITION UNITED LEFT (IU), WITH 8 PERCENT.</p><p>DURING THE LAST FIVE DAYS OF THEIR CAMPAIGNS THE CANDIDATES WILL STEP UP THEIR TRIPS TO VARIOUS POINTS OF THE COUNTRY TRYING TO GAIN THE VOTES OF A LARGE UNDECIDED SECTOR OF THE POPULATION. ACCORDING TO THE SURVEYS, THIS SECTOR REPRESENTS BETWEEN 18 AND 20 PERCENT OF THE VOTES.</p><p>MEANWHILE THE TERRORISTS CONTINUE ON THEIR PATH OF DEATH AND DESTRUCTION. IN THE LAST 24 HOURS THE SHINING PATH MURDERED TWO STATE OFFICIALS OF THE [WORDS INDISTINCT] ON A ROAD LINKING CHAVIN AND HUARI, TWO TOWNS IN ANCASH DEPARTMENT. IN HUARAZ, THE CAPITAL OF ANCASH DEPARTMENT, THE TERRORISTS SET FIRE TO THE OFFICES OF THE LOCAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION BUT INJURED NO ONE. ONE PERSON DIED WHEN AN ORE TRAIN WAS DERAILED NEAR OROYA, A KEY MINING TOWN IN THE PERUVIAN CENTRAL JUNGLE AREA, WHERE AN ELECTORAL REGISTRATION OFFICE WAS LOCATED. SEVEN PRIVATE BANK BRANCHES WERE ALSO ATTACKED AND SERIOUSLY DAMAGED IN LIMA. IN BARRANCA, A SMALL VILLAGE 180 KM FROM LIMA, TERRORISTS BOMBED A RADIO STATION AND A DRUGSTORE, BOTH OF THEM BELONGING TO SANTIAGO JAO, A FREDEMO CANDIDATE FOR DEPUTY.</p></body></html>