<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:dbp="http://dbpedia.org/resource/" xmlns:this="http://dstl.github.io/muc3/tst1/TST1-MUC3-0006.xhtml#"  id="TST1-MUC3-0006"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0006"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-18"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0006</title></head><body vocab="http://schema.org/"><p>TST1-MUC3-0006</p><p>BOGOTA, 18 AUG 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [EXCERPTS] <span about="dbp:The_Extraditables" rev="agent" resource="dbp:Waldemar_Franklin_Quintero#Assassination">THE EXTRADITABLES</span> TODAY CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR <span about="dbp:Waldemar_Franklin_Quintero#Assassination" typeof="Action" property="description">THE MURDER OF <span about="dbp:Waldemar_Franklin_Quintero" rev="object" resource="dbp:Waldemar_Franklin_Quintero#Assassination">ANTIOQUIA POLICE COMMANDER COLONEL WALDEMAR FRANKLIN QUINTERO</span>, WHICH OCCURRED <span about="dbp:Waldemar_Franklin_Quintero#Assassination" property="startTime" content="1989-08-18">THIS MORNING</span> IN <span property="location">MEDELLIN</span>.</span> THE CRIMINAL ATTACK ON THE OFFICER OCCURED A SCANT 1 MONTH AFTER <span>THE MURDER OF ANTIOQUIA DEPARTMENT GOVERNOR ANTONIO ROLDAN BETANCUR</span>.</p><p>A POLICEMAN WAS KILLED AND ANOTHER POLICEMAN WOUNDED DURING THE TERRORIST ATTACK. COL QUINTERO DID NOT HAVE A POLICE ESCORT BY HIS OWN BEHEST. COL QUINTERO WAS DIRECTING OPERATIONS AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING AND CONSEQUENTLY HAD BEEN THE OBJECT OF DEATH THREATS. HERE IS A REPORT BY <span>GLADYS VARGAS</span> FROM MEDELLIN.</p><p>[BEGIN RECORDING] [VARGAS] THIS MORNING ANTIOQUIA POLICE COMMANDER COL WALDEMAR FRANKLIN QUINTERO LEFT HIS RESIDENCE TO BEGIN HIS DAILY TASKS AT ANTIOQUIA POLICE HEADQUARTERS. AS THE VEHICLE DROVE THROUGH <span about="dbp:Waldemar_Franklin_Quintero#Assassination" property="location">THE AMERICA NEIGHBORHOOD, SEVEN BLOCKS FROM WHERE ANTIOQUIA GOVERNOR ANTONIO ROLDAN WAS KILLED</span>, THE VEHICLE THAT COL QUINTERO WAS IN -- <span>A WHITE NISSAN PATROL VEHICLE WITH LICENSE PLATES ME-7847</span> -- DREW TO A STOP IN FRONT OF A RED LIGHT <span about="dbp:Waldemar_Franklin_Quintero#Assassination" property="location">AT THE CARRERA 80 CROSSING</span>. SEVERAL INDIVIDUALS IN <span about="dbp:Waldemar_Franklin_Quintero#Assassination" property="instrument">A GRAY MAZDA 626 VEHICLE, WITH LICENSE PLATES <span>MI-1630</span></span>, TOOK ADVANTAGE OF THIS CIRCUMSTANCE TO FIRE VOLLEYS OF SUBMACHINEGUN FIRE AGAINST COL QUINTERO, WHO DIED INSTANTLY. [PASSAGE OMITTED]</p><p>COL QUINTERO DID NOT HAVE A POLICE ESCORT. JUST 8 DAYS AGO HE DECIDED TO DISMISS THE ESCORT, BECAUSE HE DID NOT WANT ANYONE ELSE TO BE KILLED IF THERE WERE AN ATTACK ON HIM. ONLY COL QUINTERO AND A POLICE DRIVER WERE IN THE VEHICLE.</p><p>THE JUDGE OF THE 76TH DISTRICT COURT, WHO DIRECTED THE REMOVAL OF THE BODY, SAID THAT SEVERAL TYPES OF WEAPONS WERE USED IN THE ATTACK AND MORE THAN 100 SHOTS WERE FIRED. [PASSAGE OMITTED] [END RECORDING]</p></body></html>