<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0052"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0052"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-02-04"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0052</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0052</p><p>BOGOTA, 4 FEB 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [INTERVIEW WITH NORTH SANTANDER GOVERNOR EDUARDO ASSAF ELCURE BY UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [ASSAF] I BELIEVE THAT HERE IN THE DEPARTMENT, THE EXPERIENCE WITH MAYORS ELECTED BY THE PEOPLE, HAS BEEN SATISFACTORY. MOST OF THEM HAVE BEEN RESPONSIBLE TO THE COMMUNITIES THEY REPRESENT. THEY HAVE BEEN WORKING AND ALL HAVE A FAVORABLE BALANCE. WHY NOT ALLOW CITIZENS TO FREELY AND SPONTANEOUSLY EXCERCISE THE RIGHT TO VOTE AGAIN. THIS WOULD CONTINUE THE DEMOCRATIZATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROCESS NEEDED BY THE COUNTRY TO PROGRESS AND FIND PEACE. I BELIEVE WE SHOULD TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE WONDERFUL SERVICES RENDERED BY DR. RAFAEL PARDO, THE NATIONAL REHABILITATION PLAN DIRECTOR, TO ATTEMPT TO FIND NEW ROADS TOWARD ACHIEVING DIALOGUE WITH THESE TWO SECTORS, ESPECIALLY WITH THE ELN. IT IS NOT EASY TO FIND PEACE, ESPECIALLY FOR THIS DEPARTMENT. WE MUST AT LEAST MAKE ATTEMPTS TO HOLD DIALOGUE WITH THIS GUERRILLA GROUP, WHICH HAS SHOWN IT CAN EASILY MOVE AROUND AND DISRUPT STABILITY AND PUBLIC ORDER IN THE DEPARTMENT OF NORTH SANTANDER.</p><p>[REPORTER] MR. GOVERNOR, UP TO NOW, HAVE ELN OR EPL SUBVERSIVES TRIED TO ATTAIN THIS DIALOGUE?</p><p>[ASSAF] WELL, NO. IT HAS NOT BEEN EASY, BESIDES WE BELIEVE THESE ARE INITIATIVES THAT SHOULD BE STARTED BY THE PEACE COMMISSIONERS, AS THEY HAVE EXPERIENCE IN SUCH CONVERSATIONS, CONTACTS, AND DIALOGUES. THAT IS WHY I MENTIONED THAT, PERHAPS, THROUGH DR. RAFAEL PARDO, WHO HAS BEEN THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT'S DELEGATE, ATTEMPTS WILL BE MADE TO SEARCH FOR SUCH POSSIBILITIES. I BELIEVE THE GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN MAKING EFFORTS TO ATTAIN PEACE IN THE COUNTRY, AND THE QUICKER WE ATTAIN THIS, THE BETTER IT WILL BE FOR THE SECURITY AND STABILITY OF COLOMBIA.</p><p>[REPORTER] HAVE YOU ALREADY SENT AN INVITATION OR ASKED DR. RAFAEL PARDO TO COME TO YOUR DEPARTMENT?</p><p>[ASSAF] WE HAVE TALKED TO HIM OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS ABOUT THE PUBLIC ORDER SITUATION AND OTHER SITUATIONS THAT REQUIRE SPECIAL ATTENTION. HOWEVER, THE ENTIRE COUNTRY KNOWS THAT DR. PARDO HAS BEEN WORKING VIRTUALLY FULL-TIME TO FURTHER THE PEACE CONVERSATIONS WITH M-19. THE ENTIRE COUNTRY HAS BEEN PLEASED AND VERY HAPPY WITH THESE CONVERSATIONS BECAUSE THEY HAVE BEEN AN IMPORTANT INITIATION FOR PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO'S PEACE PROCESS.</p><p>[REPORTER] BUT DR. RAFAEL PARDO RUEDA DOES NOT DISLIKE THE IDEA OF HOLDING SUCH CONVERSATIONS?</p><p>[ASSAF] I AM SURE HE DOES NOT DISLIKE THE IDEA BECAUSE HE HAS BEEN TRYING TO DO THIS FOR A LONG TIME.</p><p>[REPORTER] WHEN COULD THESE CONVERSATIONS TAKE PLACE? JUST GIVE US A TENTATIVE DATE. COULD IT BE WITHIN DAYS OR THIS WEEK?</p><p>[ASSAF] SURELY THIS WEEK WE WILL AGAIN HAVE TO STUDY THE PUBLIC ORDER SITUATION IN OUR DEPARTMENT AND SURELY WE WILL BE ABLE TO ANALYZE THIS PROPOSAL AGAIN AND I BELIEVE DR. PARDO WILL SERIOUSLY TAKE IT INTO ACCOUNT.</p><p>[REPORTER] SOME OF THE COUNTRY'S POLITICAL LEADERS -- NOT ONLY IN NORTHERN SANTANDER, BUT IN SEVERAL AREAS OF THE COUNTRY -- ARE VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE CONSTANT RAIDS BY SUBVERSIVE GROUPS, AND THEIR MURDERED MAYORS, OFFICIALS, AND POLITICAL LEADERS AND THE KIDNAPPING OF NATIONAL CIVIL REGISTRY OFFICE PERSONNEL. THEY INDICATE THAT WITH ACTIONS OF THIS TYPE IT WOULD BE VERY DIFFICULT FOR PEOPLE TO FREELY EXPRESS THEMSELVES BY VOTING IN THE NEXT ELECTIONS.</p><p>[ASSAF] YES, SURELY ALL THESE INCIDENTS CAN, IN A CERTAIN MANNER, WEAKEN THE ELECTORAL VOTE. HOWEVER, EVERYDAY WE ARE MORE CONVINCED THAT COLOMBIANS WANT TO EXCERCISE THIS RIGHT WITHOUT ANY TYPE OF LIMITATIONS AND MAKE EFFORTS -- INCLUDING HEROIC ACTIONS -- TO CONTINUE THIS CAMPAIGN SO THAT ELECTIONS CAN BE HELD THROUGHOUT THE NATIONAL TERRITORY. VOTING IS THE REAL EXPRESSION OF DEMOCRACY AND WE WILL ALL FIGHT FOR IT. WE ARE SURE THAT THE GOVERNMENT, THROUGH THE ARMED FORCES, WILL DO EVERYTHING POSSIBLE FOR THE UPCOMING ELECTIONS TO BE HELD WITHOUT PROBLEMS. HOWEVER, IT IS A HUGE EFFORT, AS IT HAS TO CONFRONT A SERIES OF APPREHENSIONS OR FEARS THAT HAVE BEEN INSTILLED IN SOME PEOPLE. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>