<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0004"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0004"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-08-30"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0004</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0004</p><p>BOGOTA, 30 AUG 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 2) -- [TEXT] LAST NIGHT'S TERRORIST TARGET WAS THE ANTIOQUIA LIQUEUR PLANT. FOUR POWERFUL ROCKETS WERE GOING TO EXPLODE VERY CLOSE TO THE TANKS WHERE 300,000 GALLONS OF THE SO-CALLED CASTILLE CRUDE, USED TO OPERATE THE BOILERS, IS STORED. THE WATCHMEN ON DUTY REPORTED THAT AT 2030 THEY SAW A MAN AND A WOMAN LEAVING A SMALL SUITCASE NEAR THE FENCE THAT SURROUNDS THE PLANT. THE WATCHMEN EXCHANGED FIRE WITH THE TERRORISTS WHO FLED LEAVING BEHIND THE EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL THAT ALSO INCLUDED DYNAMITE AND GRENADE ROCKET LAUNCHERS. METROPOLITAN POLICE PERSONNEL SPECIALIZING IN EXPLOSIVES, DEFUSED THE ROCKETS. SOME 100 PEOPLE WERE WORKING INSIDE THE PLANT.</p><p>THE DAMAGE THE ROCKETS WOULD HAVE CAUSED HAD THEY BEEN ACTIVATED CANNOT BE ESTIMATED BECAUSE THE CARIBE SODA FACTORY AND THE GUAYABAL RESIDENTIAL AREA WOULD HAVE ALSO BEEN AFFECTED.</p><p>THE ANTIOQUIA LIQUEUR PLANT HAS RECEIVED THREATS IN THE PAST AND MAXIMUM SECURITY HAS ALWAYS BEEN PRACTICED IN THE AREA. SECURITY WAS STEPPED UP LAST NIGHT AFTER THE INCIDENT. THE LIQUEUR INDUSTRY IS THE LARGEST FOREIGN EXCHANGE PRODUCER FOR THE DEPARTMENT.</p></body></html>