<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0060"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0060"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-05-27"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0060</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0060</p><p>BOGOTA, 27 MAY 90 (RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [SPEECH] [CESAR GAVIRIA TRUJILLO, LIBERAL PARTY PRESIDENT-ELECT] [TEXT] THIS IS A NIGHT OF HAPPINESS FOR ALL OF MY FAMILY, FOR ALL OF THOSE WHO WITH THEIR DEDICATION AND THEIR WORK HAVE ACCOMPANIED ME IN THIS DIFFICULT MOMENT OF COLOMBIAN LIFE. I HAVE, DEEP IN MY THOUGHTS, MY CAMPAIGN COMPANIONS, MY DEBATE LEADERS, ALL THOSE WHO FILLED EVERY MOMENT WITH DEDICATION AND ENTHUSIASM, WHICH I HOPE TO DESERVE. I HAVE PRESENT THE UNIVERSITY YOUTH, STAUNCH STANDARD-BEARERS OF THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY [APPLAUSE]; ALL OF MY PARTY LEADERS, SERVANTS OF THE LIBERAL CAUSE WHO SHOWED STEADFAST LOYALTY; GRASSROOTS LEADERS FROM ALL PARTS OF COLOMBIA; AND THE PEOPLE, WHOSE DECISION COMMITS ME BEYOND ANY DOUBT.</p><p>I WANT TO OFFER THIS VICTORY TO GLORIA, JUAN MANUEL, AND HIS BROTHERS [APPLAUSE], AND TO LUIS CARLOS GALAN'S PARENTS -- MARIO AND CECILIA -- WHO ACCOMPANIED HIM IN HIS LONG HEROIC JOURNEY THROUGH COLOMBIAN LIFE. THIS IS HIS VICTORY, A VICTORY FOR HIS CHILDREN, HIS IDEALS, HIS FAITH IN COLOMBIA, AND THE LIBERAL PRINCIPLES THAT INSPIRED HIS LIFE.</p><p>I ALSO THINK OF MY MOTHER; MY BROTHERS; ANA MILENA [APPLAUSE], MY WIFE AND COMPANION AT ALL TIMES AND DURING SLEEPLESS NIGHTS; AND MY CHILDREN SIMON AND MARIA PAZ. [APPLAUSE]</p><p>TODAY COLOMBIA HAS COMPLETED THE MOST DIFFICULT AND RUGGED POLITICAL CAMPAIGN IN ALL ITS HISTORY. ITS VALUES, ITS DEMOCRACY, AND ITS LIBERTY WERE AT STAKE AS NEVER BEFORE. AS NEVER BEFORE, THE PROMOTERS OF VIOLENCE FROM ALL SIDES TRIED TO DESTABILIZE OUR INSTITUTIONS. HOWEVER, COLOMBIANS, ALSO AS NEVER BEFORE, STOOD UP TO THE HISTORIC MOMENT WE FACED. THE COLOMBIAN PEOPLE'S POWERFUL DEMOCRATIC DETERMINATION WAS STRONGER. CONVINCED OF THE IMPORTANCE OF THE CURRENT HOUR, THEY WENT OUT TO SUPPORT WITH MILLIONS OF VOTES DEMOCRACY THAT HAS HAD TO FACE BOMBS, NARCOTERRORISM, AND HATEFUL PRACTICES.</p><p>ALL THOSE WHO HAVE WANTED TO THREATEN OUR DEMOCRACY MUST LISTEN: OUR PEOPLE HAVE SPOKEN TODAY WITH COURAGE AND CLARITY. WE SHALL PREVAIL. IT HAS BEEN A CONSCIENTIOUS, BOLD MOBILIZATION BY MILLIONS OF COLOMBIANS WHO HAVE EXPRESSED THEIR POLITICAL WILL FOR THE FIRST TIME THROUGH A SYSTEM WITHOUT PRESSURE OR INTIMIDATION. ONCE AGAIN, TODAY, AS ON 11 MARCH, CITIZENS VOTED AS THEY WISHED.</p><p>THIS DIFFICULT AND RUGGED CAMPAIGN HAS NOT BEEN CHARACTERIZED BY A CRUDE CONFRONTATION AMONG CANDIDATES, WHO ACTED WITH DECENCY AND LOYALTY. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>