<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0077"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0077"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0077</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0077</p><p>BOGOTA, NO DATE (DOMESTIC SERVICE) -- [SPEECH] [BARCO] [TEXT] [CONTINUED] [BARCO] ACTUALLY, THAT IS NOT SO, BECAUSE WHILE WE ARE GATHERED HERE THE TENTACLES OF THE DRUG TRADE ARE CLOSING IN ON EUROPE AND THE MIDDLE EAST. THE AGGGRESSIVE SEARCH FOR NEW MARKETS DOES NOT RESPECT OCEANS, JUST AS IT HAS NOT RESPECTED BORDERS. ANYWHERE THERE ARE CONSUMERS, THERE WILL BE SUPPLIERS. IN FACT, COCAINE IS BUT ONE OF THE PERNICIOUS MANIFESTATIONS OF THE CRISIS OF DRUG ABUSE, WHICH IS MUCH BROADER. WE MUST NOT DELUDE OURSELVES. THIS SCOURGE AFFECTS US ALL.</p><p>ACTING IN SOLIDARITY, AS A COMMUNITY OF NATIONS, WE MUST FOLLOW THIS PLAN OF ACTION:</p><p>FIRST, IT IS INDISPENSABLE TO EFFECTIVELY CURB THE DEMAND FOR ILLEGAL DRUGS. DRUG ABUSE IS THE FUEL THAT PROPELS NARCOTERRORISM. TODAY IT IS ONE OF THE MOST SERIOUS THREATS TO LATIN AMERICAN DEMOCRACIES. COCAINE USERS ARE CONTRIBUTING TO THE KILLING OF MY PEOPLE BY THE CRIMINAL INTERNATIONAL DRUG TRAFFICKING ORGANIZATION. WITHOUT ANY DOUBT, IN ANY OF THE DISTINGUISHED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS OF THIS CITY, A HABITUAL COCAINE USER MAY REGARD MY ASSERTION AS AN EXAGGERATION. NEVERTHELESS, HIS VICE MAKES HIM A COLLABORATOR OF THE MURDERERS WHO HAVE KILLED MANY COLOMBIAN JUDGES AND POLICEMEN, WHO HAVE SACRIFICED THEIR LIVES TO DEFEND DEMOCRACY AND LAW. [APPLAUSE]</p><p>NO WEAPON OR TACTIC USED IN THIS STRUGGLE WILL BE EFFECTIVE ENOUGH IF IT IS NOT COMBINED WITH RESOLUTE EFFORTS TO REDUCE THE DEMAND. THE ILLEGAL PROFITS ARE EXTREMELY LARGE. I AM CERTAIN THAT WE WILL DEFEAT THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS IN COLOMBIA, BUT SOMEONE IN SOME OTHER COUNTRY, SOMEWHERE, WILL TAKE OVER THIS BUSINESS AS LONG AS IT REMAINS SO PROFITABLE. THIS HAPPENED WITH MARIJUANA. WHEN IT BECAME TOO COSTLY FOR THE DRUG TRAFFICKERS TO OPERATE IN COLOMBIA BECAUSE OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE PUBLIC FORCES, THE TRADERS IN VICE MOVED THEIR PLANTATIONS TO CALIFORNIA, TO HAWAII, AND TO MANY OTHER REGIONS. THE ONLY LAW THE DRUG RUNNERS DO NOT VIOLATE IS THE LAW OF SUPPLY AND DEMAND. [APPLAUSE]</p><p>NO SOCIETY, REGARDLESS OF HOW WEALTHY IT IS, CAN AFFORD THE LUXURY OF ALLOWING ITS SONS OR DAUGHTERS TO POISON THEMSELVES WITH COCAINE, HEROIN, MARIJUANA, OR ANY OTHER SUCH DEADLY DRUGS. IN THIS CONTEXT, I WISH TO ASSERT THAT PRESIDENT BUSH'S PLAN TO CURB THE DEMAND IS A FIRST STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION. WE MUST INSIST ON THE MESSAGE THAT ILLEGAL DRUGS ARE NOT ACCEPTABLE OR HARMLESS, WHETHER THEY ARE CONSUMED IN THE GLITTERING PARTIES OF THE RICH OR IN THE SLUMS. [CONTINUED]</p></body></html>