<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0073"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0073"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-12-29"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="SANTIAGO"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0073</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0073</p><p>SANTIAGO, 29 DEC 89 (EFE) -- [TEXT] POLICE TODAY REPORTED THAT DURING THE LAST FEW HOURS TERRORISTS STAGED THREE BOMB ATTACKS AGAINST U.S. PROPERTIES.</p><p>NO ONE HAS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACKS SO FAR. THEY AFFECTED THE U.S.-CHILEAN CULTURAL INSTITUTE, A MORMON CHURCH IN THE CAPITAL, AND A BRANCH OF THE "CITICORP" FINANCIAL FIRM IN VINA DEL MAR, 125 KM NORTHEAST OF SANTIAGO.</p><p>CARABINEROS HAVE REPORTED THAT A BOMB, WHICH WAS PLACED ON THE 5TH FLOOR OF THE CHILEAN-U.S. CULTURAL INSTITUTE, 150 METERS FROM THE GOVERNMENT PALACE, WENT OFF LAST NIGHT CAUSING DAMAGE BUT NO VICTIMS.</p><p>THE BOMB HAD BEEN MANUFACTURED WITH L KILO OF AMMONIUM GELAGNITE AND WAS ACTIVATED WITH A FUSE, POLICE SOURCES SAID.</p><p>AT 0LL5 THIS MORNING (0415 GMT) INCENDIARY BOMBS WERE HURLED AT A MORMON TEMPLE AT NUNOA DISTRICT, IN SANTIAGO. THE BOMBS CAUSED MINOR DAMAGE. AT THE TIME OF THE ATTACK THE BUILDING WAS EMPTY, ACCORDING TO THE SOURCES.</p><p>THE ATTACKERS PAINTED THE WALLS AND LEFT PAMPHLETS WITH ULTRA-LEFTIST MESSAGES OF THE LAUTARO YOUTH FRONT.</p><p>A BOMB, WHICH SHATTERED THE GLASSES AND DESTROYED THE MASONRY OF THE "CITICORP" FINANCIAL COMPANY OFFICES IN DOWNTOWN VINA DEL MAR, EXPLODED TODAY SHORTLY AFTER 0200 (0500 GMT).</p><p>THE POLICE REPORTED THAT ANOTHER BOMB WAS DISCOVERED AND DEFUSED BEFORE IT EXPLODED AT A CATHOLIC SCHOOL IN VINA DEL MAR.</p><p>A FEW DAYS AGO, THE CHILEAN-U.S. CULTURAL INSTITUTES IN VINA DEL MAR, TALCA, AND TEMUCO WERE THE TARGET OF BOMB ATTACKS.</p><p>THE MANUEL RODRIGUEZ PATRIOTIC FRONT (FPMR), WHICH THE PINOCHET REGIME CONSIDERS TO BE THE COMMUNIST PARTY'S ARMED BRANCH, ANNOUNCED FOLLOWING THE U.S. INVASION OF PANAMA THAT IT WOULD ATTACK "U.S. INTERESTS IN CHILE."</p></body></html>