<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0093"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0093"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="CLANDESTINE"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0093</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0093</p><p>CLANDESTINE, NO DATE (RADIO VENCEREMOS) -- [TEXT] WE WILL ORGANIZE A PLURALIST GOVERNMENT WHICH INCLUDES REPRESENTATIVES OF ALL THE PATRIOTIC GROUPS OF THE NATION. LET US SAVE OUR CAPITAL, WHICH IS BEING BOMBED DUE TO A FOREIGN MENTALITY. IT IS BEING BOMBED AND DESTROYED BY AN OCCUPATION ARMY. THE AIRPLANES ARE NOW BEING FLOWN BY U.S. PILOTS AT NIGHT, AND THEY HAVE THE MENTALITY OF AN OCCUPATION ARMY.</p><p>SALVADORANS, LET US UNITE AND ORGANIZE OURSELVES. LET US NOT REMAIN IDLE. WE MUST MOBILIZE OURSELVES RIGHT NOW AND ORGANIZE A COMMITTEE IN EACH NEIGHBORHOOD, RESIDENTIAL AREA, AND TOWN. THE PEOPLE MUST ORGANIZE. THE FMLN HAS BEGUN ITS 7TH DAY IN THE CAPITAL, AND WE ARE SURE THAT WE ARE ADVANCING TOWARD VICTORY. VICTORY WILL BE OURS AND COLONEL PONCE HAS GIVEN PROOF OF HIS DESPERATION WITH THE JESUIT PRIESTS' ASSASSINATION IN SAN SALVADOR. HE HAS OVERSTEPPED HIS MARK AND THE PEOPLE'S PATIENCE IS EXHAUSTED. WE URGE ALL OUR PEOPLE TO JOIN THE GENERAL UPRISING, STRUGGLE, TAKE UP WEAPONS, AND ORGANIZE EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO OUST THIS CORRUPT AND MURDEROUS REGIME. WE URGE THE PEOPLE TO MOBILIZE,TO TAKE UP WEAPONS, AND TO STAY IN THE NEIGHBORHOODS AND RESIDENTIAL AREAS TO STRUGGLE FOR THE LIBERATION OF OUR HOMELAND. WE MUST ACHIEVE PROGRESS.</p><p>INFORMATION HAS JUST ARRIVED FROM THE UNITED STATES, INDICATING THAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAS BEGUN TO WITHDRAW ITS UNCONDITIONAL SUPPORT FOR THE DEATH SQUADS IN EL SALVADOR. INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM THE UNITED STATES INDICATES THAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAS BEGUN TO RECANT ITS IRRESPONSIBLE AND GENOCIDAL ATTITUDE OF SENDING U.S. PILOTS TO BOMB OUR CAPITAL BY NIGHT. THAT IS THE PROFESSIONAL TRAINING THAT U.S. IMPERIALISM IS CURRENTLY GIVING THE ARMED FORCES, MEANING TO BOMB THE CAPITAL BY NIGHT, AS ALL THE PEOPLE IN THE CAPITAL HAVE WITNESSED IN RECENT HOURS.</p><p>THUS, WE ISSUE AN APPEAL TO THE PEOPLE: ORGANIZE YOURSELVES. WE WILL ACHIEVE VICTORY. WE SURE OF THIS. THE BLOOD OF IGNACIO ELLACURIA, THE BLOOD OF THE JESUITS, THE BLOOD OF MONSIGNOR [ARNULFO] ROMERO, THE BLOOD OF THE FOUR U.S. NUNS, THE BLOOD OF THE 11 PRIESTS ASSASSINATED [WORDS INDISTINCT], THE BLOOD OF [WORDS INDISTINCT] SEMINARIANS, YOUTHS [WORDS INDISTINCT], AND FOR ALL THE BLOOD SHED. WE MUST WIN, WE MUST ACHIEVE VICTORY, WE MUST ATTAIN A TRUE DEMOCRACY FOR OUR HOMELAND -- A DEMOCRACY WITH FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION, FOOD, EDUCATION, AND JUSTICE.</p></body></html>