<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0074"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0074"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1989-11-02"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="BOGOTA"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0074</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0074</p><p>BOGOTA, 2 NOV 89 (INRAVISION TELEVISION CADENA 1) -- [TEXT] JOSE ALEJANDRO BONIVENTO, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE AND CURRENT MEMBER OF THE COURT OF APPEALS, RESIGNED HIS POST TODAY, CLAIMING THAT HE HAD BEEN SUBJECTED TO UNDUE PRESSURE BY THE GOVERNMENT.</p><p>BONIVENTO MAINTAINS THAT IN APPLYING WHAT IS TANTAMOUNT TO A STATE OF SIEGE, THE GOVERNMENT IS ISSUING MEASURES AND WANTS THEM TO BE DECLARED CONSTITUTIONAL FOR ITS CONVENIENCE AND TO SATISFY FOREIGN INTERESTS.</p><p>IT WAS ANNOUNCED THAT 40 JUDGES MIGHT RESIGN NEXT WEEK TO PROTEST THE ASSASSINATION OF THEIR COLLEAGUE MARIELA ESPINOSA ARANGO.</p><p>COLOMBIAN JUDGES TODAY BEGAN A NUMBER OF STAGGERED STOPPAGES TO PROTEST THE ASSASSINATION OF JUDGE MARIELA ESPINOSA ARANGO THE EVENING OF 1 NOVEMBER IN MEDELLIN. A TOTAL OF 17,000 JUDGES PARTICIPATED IN A 2-HOUR STOPPAGE. THERE WILL BE TWO SIMILAR ACTIONS THE MORNING AND AFTERNOON OF 3 NOVEMBER. MEDELLIN'S SUPERIOR COURT WILL BE IN RECESS FOR 1 WEEK.</p><p>MEANWHILE, THE SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE COMPLAINED THAT FIVE JUDGES HAVE BEEN KILLED IN 2 MONTHS, AND IT REQUESTED A MEETING WITH PRESIDENT VIRGILIO BARCO. JUDGE ESPINOSA WAS BURIED THIS AFTERNOON.</p></body></html>