<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="TST1-MUC3-0049"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/><meta name="DC.identifier" content="TST1-MUC3-0049"/><meta name="DC.date" content="1990-03-23"/><meta name="DC.coverage" content="POPAYAN"/><title>TST1-MUC3-0049</title></head><body><p>TST1-MUC3-0049</p><p>POPAYAN, 23 MAR 90 (BOGOTA RADIO CADENA NACIONAL) -- [TEXT] MEMBERS OF THE 8TH FRONT OF THE SELF-STYLED REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA [FARC] HAVE CARRIED OUT TERRORIST ATTACKS IN SOUTHERN CAUCA DEPARTMENT TO PROTEST PATRIOTIC UNION [UP] PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE BERNARDO JARAMILLO OSSA'S MURDER.</p><p>THE FARC MEMBERS BLEW UP A POWER SUBSTATION AND A POWER PYLON IN SAJANDI, LA FONDA CORREGIMIENTO. THE GUERRILLAS ALSO BURNED THREE VEHICLES ON THE PAN-AMERICAN HIGHWAY-- A BALBOA HOSPITAL AMBULANCE, A FUEL TRUCK CARRYING 3,000 GALLONS OF GASOLINE, AND A STATION WAGON. A LARGE SECTION OF EL PATIA VALLEY WAS LEFT WITHOUT ELECTRICITY.</p><p>THROUGH SEVERAL TELEPHONE CALLS TO THE POPAYAN MEDIA, THE 8TH FARC FRONT DECLARED THE PAN-AMERICAN HIGHWAY A MILITARY TARGET DURING THE NEXT 48 HOURS IN ORDER TO DEMAND THAT THE GOVERNMENT INVESTIGATE AND ARREST THOSE WHO ARE TRULY RESPONSIBLE FOR JARAMILLO'S MURDER.</p><p>TRANSPORTATION SERVICES BETWEEN [WORD INDISTINCT] AND PASTO IN SOUTHERN COLOMBIA HAVE BEEN SUSPENDED AS A RESULT OF THE TERRORIST ATTACKS, WHICH BEGAN AT 0300 TODAY.</p><p>POLICE AND 3D INFANTRY BRIGADE MEMBERS WERE DEPLOYED TO THE AREAS WHERE THE 8TH FRONT OF THE SELF-STYLED REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA BLOCKED TRAFFIC. THE 8TH FARC FRONT MEMBERS SAID THEIR MILITARY ACTIONS ARE AIMED AT DEMANDING THE CLARIFICATION OF UP PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE BERNARDO JARAMILLO'S MURDER.</p><p>THE POPAYAN POLICE DEPARTMENT CONFIRMED THAT THE ATTACKS TOOK PLACE ON THE PAN-AMERICAN HIGHWAY AND AT LA FONDA CORREGIMIENTO, PATIA MUNICIPALITY.</p><p>GOVERNOR FERNANDO IRACONI SAID THAT THE REGIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL WILL MEET IN POPAYAN IN A FEW MINUTES TO ASSESS THE MOST RECENT TERRORIST ATTACKS AND TO ADOPT THE NECESSARY MEASURES.</p></body></html>